---
title: Psalm 101
---
# Psalm 101

<sup>1</sup> A Prayer for the Poor; when he is deeply afflicted, and pours out his supplication before the Lord. <sup>2</sup> Hear my prayer, O Lord, and let my cry come to thee. <sup>3</sup> Turn not away thy face from me: in the day when I am afflicted, incline thine ear to me: in the day when I shall call upon thee, speedily hear me. <sup>4</sup> For my days have vanished like smoke, and my bones have been parched like a stick. <sup>5</sup> I am blighted like grass, and my heart is dried up; for I have forgotten to eat my bread. <sup>6</sup> By reason of the voice of my groaning, my bone has cleaved to my flesh. <sup>7</sup> I have become like a pelican of the wilderness; <sup>8</sup> I have become like an owl in a ruined house. I have watched, and am become as a sparrow dwelling alone on a roof. <sup>9</sup> All the day long mine enemies have reproached me; and they that praised me have sworn against me. <sup>10</sup> For I have eaten ashes as it were bread, and mingled my drink with weeping; <sup>11</sup> because of thine anger and thy wrath: for thou hast lifted me up, and dashed me down. <sup>12</sup> My days have declined like a shadow; and I am withered like grass. <sup>13</sup> But thou, Lord, endurest for ever, and thy memorial to generation and generation. <sup>14</sup> Thou shalt arise, and have mercy upon Sion: for it is time to have mercy upon her, for the set time is come. <sup>15</sup> For thy servants have taken pleasure in her stones, and they shall pity her dust. <sup>16</sup> So the nations shall fear thy name, O Lord, and all kings thy glory. <sup>17</sup> For the Lord shall build up Sion, and shall appear in his glory. <sup>18</sup> He has had regard to the prayer of the lowly, and has not despised their petition. <sup>19</sup> Let this be written for another generation; and the people that shall be created shall praise the Lord. <sup>20</sup> For he has looked out from the height of his sanctuary; the Lord looked upon the earth from heaven; <sup>21</sup> to hear the groaning of the fettered ones, to loosen the sons of the slain; <sup>22</sup> to proclaim the name of the Lord in Sion, and his praise in Jerusalem; <sup>23</sup> when the people are gathered together, and the kings, to serve the Lord. <sup>24</sup> He answered him in the way of his strength: tell me the fewness of my days. <sup>25</sup> Take me not away in the midst of my days: thy years are through all generations. <sup>26</sup> In the beginning thou, O Lord, didst lay the foundation of the earth; and the heavens are the works of thine hands. <sup>27</sup> They shall perish, but thou remainest: and they all shall wax old as a garment; and as a vesture shalt thou fold them, and they shall be changed. <sup>28</sup> But thou art the same, and thy years shall not fail. <sup>29</sup> The children of thy servants shall dwell securely, and their seed shall prosper for ever. 