---
title: Psalm 5
psalm: 5
previous: 4
next: 6
layout: psalm
---
<div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">1</sup> For the end, a Psalm of David, concerning her that inherits. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">2</sup> Hearken to my words, O Lord, attend to my cry. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">3</sup> Attend to the voice of my supplication, my King, and my God: for to thee, O Lord, will I pray. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">4</sup> In the morning thou shalt hear my voice: in the morning will I wait upon thee, and will look up. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">5</sup> For thou art not a God that desires iniquity; neither shall the worker of wickedness dwell with thee. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">6</sup> Neither shall the transgressors continue in thy sight: thou hatest, O Lord, all them that work iniquity. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">7</sup> Thou wilt destroy all that speak falsehood: the Lord abhors the bloody and deceitful man. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">8</sup> But I will enter into thine house in the multitude of thy mercy: I will worship in thy fear toward thy holy temple. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">9</sup> Lead me, O Lord, in thy righteousness because of mine enemies; make my way plain before thy face. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">10</sup> For there is no truth in their mouth; their heart is vain; their throat is an open sepulchre; with their tongues they have used deceit. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">11</sup> Judge them, O God; let them fail of their counsels: cast them out according to the abundance of their ungodliness; for they have provoked thee, O Lord. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">12</sup> But let all that trust on thee be glad in thee: they shall exult for ever, and thou shalt dwell among them; and all that love thy name shall rejoice in thee. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">13</sup> For thou, Lord, shalt bless the righteous: thou hast compassed us as with a shield of favour. </div>