---
title: Psalm 139
psalm: 139
previous: 138
next: 140
layout: psalm
---
<div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">1</sup> For the end, a Psalm of David. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">2</sup> Rescue me, O Lord, from the evil man; deliver me from the unjust man. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">3</sup> Who have devised injustice in their hearts; all the day they prepared war. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">4</sup> They have sharpened their tongue as the tongue of a serpent; the poison of asps is under their lips. Pause. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">5</sup> Keep me, O Lord, from the hand of the sinner; rescue me from unjust men; who have purposed to overthrow my goings. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">6</sup> The proud have hid a snare for me, and have stretched out ropes for snares for my feet; they set a stumbling-block for me near the path. Pause. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">7</sup> I said to the Lord, Thou art my God; hearken, O Lord, to the voice of my supplication. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">8</sup> O Lord God, the strength of my salvation; thou hast screened my head in the day of battle. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">9</sup> Deliver me not, O Lord, to the sinner, according to my desire: they have devised mischief against me; forsake me not, lest they should be exalted. Pause. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">10</sup> As for the head of them that compass me, the mischief of their lips shall cover them. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">11</sup> Coals of fire shall fall upon them on the earth; and thou shalt cast them down in afflictions: they shall not bear up under them. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">12</sup> A talkative man shall not prosper on the earth: evils shall hunt the unrighteous man to destruction. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">13</sup> I know that the Lord will maintain the cause of the poor, and the right of the needy ones. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">14</sup> Surely the righteous shall give thanks to thy name: the upright shall dwell in thy presence. </div>