---
title: Psalm 76
---
# Psalm 76

<sup>1</sup> For the end, for Idithun, a Psalm of Asaph. <sup>2</sup> I cried to the Lord with my voice, yea, my voice was addressed to God; and he gave heed to me. <sup>3</sup> In the day of mine affliction I earnestly sought the Lord; even with my hands by night before him, and I was not deceived; my soul refused to be comforted. <sup>4</sup> I remembered God, and rejoiced; I poured out my complaint, and my soul fainted. Pause. <sup>5</sup> All mine enemies set a watch against me: I was troubled, and spoke not. <sup>6</sup> I considered the days of old, and remembered ancient years. <sup>7</sup> And I meditated; I communed with my heart by night, and diligently searched my spirit, saying, <sup>8</sup> Will the Lord cast off for ever? and will he be well pleased no more? <sup>9</sup> Will he cut off his mercy for ever, even for ever and ever? <sup>10</sup> Will God forget to pity? or will he shut up his compassions in his wrath? Pause. <sup>11</sup> And I said, Now I have begun; this is the change of the right hand of the Most High. <sup>12</sup> I remembered the works of the Lord; for I will remember thy wonders from the beginning. <sup>13</sup> And I will meditate on all thy works, and will consider thy doings. <sup>14</sup> O God, thy way is in the sanctuary; who is a great God as our God? <sup>15</sup> Thou art the God that doest wonders; thou hast made known thy power among the nations. <sup>16</sup> Thou hast with thine arm redeemed thy people, the sons of Jacob and Joseph. Pause. <sup>17</sup> The waters saw thee, O God, the waters saw thee, and feared; and the depths were troubled. <sup>18</sup> There was an abundant sound of waters: the clouds uttered a voice; for thine arrows went abroad. <sup>19</sup> The voice of thy thunder was abroad, and around thy lightnings appeared to the world; the earth trembled and quaked. <sup>20</sup> Thy way is in the sea, and thy paths in many waters, and thy footsteps cannot be known. <sup>21</sup> Thou didst guide thy people as sheep by the hand of Moses and Aaron. 