---
title: Psalm 90
---
# Psalm 90

<sup>1</sup> Praise of a Song, by David. He that dwells in the help of the Highest, shall sojourn under the shelter of the God of heaven. <sup>2</sup> He shall say to the Lord, Thou art my helper and my refuge: my God; I will hope in him. <sup>3</sup> For he shall deliver thee from the snare of the hunters, from every troublesome matter. <sup>4</sup> He shall overshadow thee with his shoulders, and thou shalt trust under his wings: his truth shall cover thee with a shield. <sup>5</sup> Thou shalt not be afraid of terror by night; nor of the arrow flying by day; <sup>6</sup> nor of the evil thing that walks in darkness; nor of calamity, and the evil spirit at noon-day. <sup>7</sup> A thousand shall fall at thy side, and ten thousand at thy right hand; but it shall not come nigh thee. <sup>8</sup> Only with thine eyes shalt thou observe and see the reward of sinners. <sup>9</sup> For thou, O Lord, art my hope: thou, my soul, hast made the Most High thy refuge. <sup>10</sup> No evils shall come upon thee, and no scourge shall draw nigh to thy dwelling. <sup>11</sup> For he shall give his angels charge concerning thee, to keep thee in all thy ways. <sup>12</sup> They shall bear thee up on their hands, lest at any time thou dash thy foot against a stone. <sup>13</sup> Thou shalt tread on the asp and basilisk: and thou shalt trample on the lion and dragon. <sup>14</sup> For he has hoped in me, and I will deliver him: I will protect him, because he has known my name. <sup>15</sup> He shall call upon me, and I will hearken to him: I am with him in affliction; and I will deliver him, and glorify him. <sup>16</sup> I will satisfy him with length of days, and shew him my salvation. 