---
title: Psalm 80
---
# Psalm 80

<sup>1</sup> For the end, a Psalm for Asaph, concerning the wine-presses. <sup>2</sup> Rejoice ye in God our helper; shout aloud to the God of Jacob. <sup>3</sup> Take a psalm, and produce the timbrel, the pleasant psaltery with the harp. <sup>4</sup> Blow the trumpet at the new moon, in the glorious day of your feast. <sup>5</sup> For this is an ordinance for Israel, and a statute of the God of Jacob. <sup>6</sup> He made it to be a testimony in Joseph, when he came forth out of the land of Egypt: he heard a language which he understood not. <sup>7</sup> He removed his back from burdens: his hands slaved in making the baskets. <sup>8</sup> Thou didst call upon me in trouble, and I delivered thee; I heard thee in the secret place of the storm: I proved thee at the water of Strife. Pause. <sup>9</sup> Hear, my people, and I will speak to thee, O Israel; and I will testify to thee: if thou wilt hearken to me; <sup>10</sup> there shall be no new god in thee; neither shalt thou worship a strange god. <sup>11</sup> For I am the Lord thy God, that brought thee out of the land of Egypt: open thy mouth wide, and I will fill it. <sup>12</sup> But my people hearkened not to my voice; and Israel gave no heed to me. <sup>13</sup> So I let them go after the ways of their own hearts: they will go on in their own ways. <sup>14</sup> If my people had hearkened to me, if Israel had walked in my ways, <sup>15</sup> I should have put down their enemies very quickly, and should have laid my hand upon those that afflicted them. <sup>16</sup> The Lord's enemies should have lied to him: but their time shall be for ever. <sup>17</sup> And he fed them with the fat of wheat; and satisfied them with honey out of the rock. 