---
title: Psalm 87
---
# Psalm 87

<sup>1</sup> A song of a Psalm for the sons of Core for the end, upon Maeleth for responsive strains, of instruction for Æman the Israelite. <sup>2</sup> O Lord God of my salvation, I have cried by day and in the night before thee. <sup>3</sup> Let my prayer come in before thee; incline thine ear to my supplication, O Lord. <sup>4</sup> For my soul is filled with troubles, and my life has drawn nigh to Hades. <sup>5</sup> I have been reckoned with them that go down to the pit; I became as a man without help; <sup>6</sup> free among the dead, as the slain ones cast out, who sleep in the tomb; whom thou rememberest no more; and they are rejected from thy hand. <sup>7</sup> They laid me in the lowest pit, in dark places, and in the shadow of death. <sup>8</sup> Thy wrath has pressed heavily upon me, and thou hast brought upon me all thy billows. Pause. <sup>9</sup> Thou hast removed my acquaintance far from me; they have made me an abomination to themselves; I have been delivered up, and have not gone forth. <sup>10</sup> Mine eyes are dimmed from poverty; but I cried to thee, O Lord, all the day; I spread forth my hands to thee. <sup>11</sup> Wilt thou work wonders for the dead? or shall physicians raise them up, that they shall praise thee? <sup>12</sup> Shall any one declare thy mercy in the tomb? and thy truth in destruction? <sup>13</sup> Shall thy wonders be known in darkness? and thy righteousness in a forgotten land? <sup>14</sup> But I cried to thee, O Lord; and in the morning shall my prayer prevent thee. <sup>15</sup> Wherefore, O Lord, dost thou reject my prayer, and turn thy face away from me? <sup>16</sup> I am poor and in troubles from my youth; and having been exalted, I was brought low and into despair. <sup>17</sup> Thy wrath has passed over me; and thy terrors have greatly disquieted me. <sup>18</sup> They compassed me like water; all the day they beset me together. <sup>19</sup> Thou hast put far from me every friend, and mine acquaintances because of my wretchedness. 