---
title: Psalm 18
psalm: 18
previous: 17
next: 19
layout: psalm
---
<div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">1</sup> For the end, a Psalm of David. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">2</sup> The heavens declare the glory of God; and the firmament proclaims the work of his hands. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">3</sup> Day to day utters speech, and night to night proclaims knowledge. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">4</sup> There are no speeches or words, in which their voices are not heard. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">5</sup> Their voice is gone out into all the earth, and their words to the ends of the world. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">6</sup> In the sun he has set his tabernacle; and he comes forth as a bridegroom out of his chamber: he will exult as a giant to run his course. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">7</sup> His going forth is from the extremity of heaven, and his circuit to the other end of heaven: and no one shall be hidden from his heat. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">8</sup> The law of the Lord is perfect, converting souls: the testimony of the Lord is faithful, instructing babes. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">9</sup> The ordinances of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart: the commandment of the Lord is bright, enlightening the eyes. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">10</sup> The fear of the Lord is pure, enduring for ever and ever: the judgments of the Lord are true, and justified altogether. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">11</sup> To be desired more than gold, and much precious stone: sweeter also than honey and the honey-comb. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">12</sup> For thy servant keeps to them: in the keeping of them there is great reward. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">13</sup> Who will understand his transgressions? purge thou me from my secret sins. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">14</sup> And spare thy servant the attack of strangers: if they do not gain the dominion over me, then shall I be blameless, and I shall be clear from great sin. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">15</sup> So shall the sayings of my mouth, and the meditation of my heart, be pleasing continually before thee, O Lord my helper, and my redeemer. </div>