---
title: Psalm 38
psalm: 38
previous: 37
next: 39
layout: psalm
---
<div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">1</sup> For the end, a Song of David, to Idithun. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">2</sup> I said, I will take heed to my ways, that I sin not with my tongue: I set a guard on my mouth, while the sinner stood in my presence. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">3</sup> I was dumb, and humbled myself, and kept silence from good words; and my grief was renewed. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">4</sup> My heart grew hot within me, and a fire would kindle in my meditation: I spoke with my tongue, </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">5</sup> O Lord, make me to know mine end, and the number of my days, what it is; that I may know what I lack. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">6</sup> Behold, thou hast made my days old; and my existence is as nothing before thee: nay, every man living is altogether vanity. Pause. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">7</sup> Surely man walks in a shadow; nay, he is disquieted in vain: he lays up treasures, and knows not for whom he shall gather them. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">8</sup> And now what is my expectation? is it not the Lord? and my ground of hope is with thee. Pause. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">9</sup> Deliver me from all my transgressions: thou hast made me a reproach to the foolish. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">10</sup> I was dumb, and opened not my mouth; for thou art he that made me. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">11</sup> Remove thy scourges from me: I have fainted by reason of the strength of thine hand. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">12</sup> Thou chastenest man with rebukes for iniquity, and thou makest his life to consume away like a spider's web: nay, every man is disquieted in vain. Pause. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">13</sup> O Lord, hearken to my prayer and my supplication: attend to my tears: be not silent, for I am a sojourner in the land, and a stranger, as all my fathers were. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">14</sup> Spare me, that I may be refreshed, before I depart, and be no more. </div>