---
title: Psalm 118
---
# Psalm 118

<sup>1</sup> Alleluia. Blessed are the blameless in the way, who walk in the law of the Lord. <sup>2</sup> Blessed are they that search out his testimonies: they will diligently seek him with the whole heart. <sup>3</sup> For they that work iniquity have not walked in his ways. <sup>4</sup> Thou hast commanded us diligently to keep thy precepts. <sup>5</sup> O that my ways were directed to keep thine ordinances. <sup>6</sup> Then shall I not be ashamed, when I have respect to all thy commandments. <sup>7</sup> I will give thee thanks with uprightness of heart, when I have learnt the judgments of thy righteousness. <sup>8</sup> I will keep thine ordinances: O forsake me not greatly. <sup>9</sup> Wherewith shall a young man direct his way? by keeping thy words. <sup>10</sup> With my whole heart have I diligently sought thee: cast me not away from thy commandments. <sup>11</sup> I have hidden thine oracles in my heart, that I might not sin against thee. <sup>12</sup> Blessed art thou, O Lord: teach me thine ordinances. <sup>13</sup> With my lips have I declared all the judgments of thy mouth. <sup>14</sup> I have delighted in the way of thy testimonies, as much as in all riches. <sup>15</sup> I will meditate on thy commandments, and consider thy ways. <sup>16</sup> I will meditate on thine ordinances: I will not forget thy words. <sup>17</sup> Render a recompence to thy servant: so shall I live, and keep thy words. <sup>18</sup> Unveil thou mine eyes, and I shall perceive wondrous things out of thy law. <sup>19</sup> I am a stranger in the earth: hide not thy commandments from me. <sup>20</sup> My soul has longed exceedingly for thy judgments at all times. <sup>21</sup> Thou hast rebuked the proud: cursed are they that turn aside from thy commandments. <sup>22</sup> Remove from me reproach and contempt; for I have sought out thy testimonies. <sup>23</sup> For princes sat and spoke against me: but thy servant was meditating on thine ordinances. <sup>24</sup> For thy testimonies are my meditation, and thine ordinances are my counsellors. <sup>25</sup> My soul has cleaved to the ground; quicken thou me according to thy word. <sup>26</sup> I declared my ways, and thou didst hear me; teach me thine ordinances. <sup>27</sup> Instruct me in the way of thine ordinances; and I will meditate on thy wondrous works. <sup>28</sup> My soul has slumbered for sorrow; strengthen thou me with thy words. <sup>29</sup> Remove from me the way of iniquity; and be merciful to me by thy law. <sup>30</sup> I have chosen the way of truth; and have not forgotten thy judgments. <sup>31</sup> I have cleaved to thy testimonies, O Lord; put me not to shame. <sup>32</sup> I ran the way of thy commandments, when thou didst enlarge my heart. <sup>33</sup> Teach me, O Lord, the way of thine ordinances, and I will seek it out continually. <sup>34</sup> Instruct me, and I will search out thy law, and will keep it with my whole heart. <sup>35</sup> Guide me in the path of thy commandments; for I have delighted in it. <sup>36</sup> Incline mine heart to thy testimonies, and not to covetousness. <sup>37</sup> Turn away mine eyes that I may not behold vanity: quicken thou me in thy way. <sup>38</sup> Confirm thine oracle to thy servant, that he may fear thee. <sup>39</sup> Take away my reproach which I have feared: for thy judgments are good. <sup>40</sup> Behold, I have desired thy commandments: quicken me in thy righteousness. <sup>41</sup> And let thy mercy come upon me, O Lord; even thy salvation, according to thy word. <sup>42</sup> And so I shall render an answer to them that reproach me: for I have trusted in thy words. <sup>43</sup> And take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth; for I have hoped in thy judgments. <sup>44</sup> So shall I keep thy law continually, for ever and ever. <sup>45</sup> I walked also at large: for I sought out thy commandments. <sup>46</sup> And I spoke of thy testimonies before kings, and was not ashamed. <sup>47</sup> And I meditated on thy commandments, which I loved exceedingly. <sup>48</sup> And I lifted up my hands to thy commandments which I loved; and I meditated in thine ordinances. <sup>49</sup> Remember thy words to thy servant, wherein thou hast made me hope. <sup>50</sup> This has comforted me in mine affliction: for thine oracle has quickened me. <sup>51</sup> The proud have transgressed exceedingly; but I swerved not from thy law. <sup>52</sup> I remembered thy judgments of old, O Lord; and was comforted. <sup>53</sup> Despair took hold upon me, because of the sinners who forsake thy law. <sup>54</sup> Thine ordinances were my songs in the place of my sojourning. <sup>55</sup> I remembered thy name, O Lord, in the night, and kept thy law. <sup>56</sup> This I had, because I diligently sought thine ordinances. <sup>57</sup> Thou art my portion, O Lord: I said that I would keep thy law. <sup>58</sup> I besought thy favour with my whole heart: have mercy upon me according to thy word. <sup>59</sup> I thought on thy ways, and turned my feet to thy testimonies. <sup>60</sup> I prepared myself, (and was not terrified,) to keep thy commandments. <sup>61</sup> The snares of sinners entangled me: but I forgot not thy law. <sup>62</sup> At midnight I arose, to give thanks to thee for the judgments of thy righteousness. <sup>63</sup> I am a companion of all them that fear thee, and of them that keep thy commandments. <sup>64</sup> O Lord, the earth is full of thy mercy: teach me thine ordinances. <sup>65</sup> Thou hast wrought kindly with thy servant, O Lord, according to thy word. <sup>66</sup> Teach me kindness, and instruction, and knowledge: for I have believed thy commandments. <sup>67</sup> Before I was afflicted, I transgressed; therefore have I kept thy word. <sup>68</sup> Good art thou, O Lord; therefore in thy goodness teach me thine ordinances. <sup>69</sup> The injustice of the proud has been multiplied against me: but I will search out thy commandments with all my heart. <sup>70</sup> Their heart has been curdled like milk; but I have meditated on thy law. <sup>71</sup> It is good for me that thou hast afflicted me; that I might learn thine ordinances. <sup>72</sup> The law of thy mouth is better to me than thousands of gold and silver. <sup>73</sup> Thy hands have made me, and fashioned me: instruct me, that I may learn thy commandments. <sup>74</sup> They that fear thee will see me and rejoice: for I have hoped in thy words. <sup>75</sup> I know, O Lord, that thy judgments are righteousness, and that thou in truthfulness hast afflicted me. <sup>76</sup> Let, I pray thee, thy mercy be to comfort me, according to thy word to thy servant. <sup>77</sup> Let thy compassions come to me, that I may live: for thy law is my meditation. <sup>78</sup> Let the proud be ashamed; for they transgressed against me unjustly: but I will meditate in thy commandments. <sup>79</sup> Let those that fear thee, and those that know thy testimonies, turn to me. <sup>80</sup> Let mine heart be blameless in thine ordinances, that I may not be ashamed. <sup>81</sup> My soul faints for thy salvation: I have hoped in thy words. <sup>82</sup> Mine eyes failed in waiting for thy word, saying, When wilt thou comfort me? <sup>83</sup> For I am become as a bottle in the frost: yet I have not forgotten thine ordinances. <sup>84</sup> How many are the days of thy servant? when wilt thou execute judgment for me on them that persecute me? <sup>85</sup> Transgressors told me idle tales; but not according to thy law, O Lord. <sup>86</sup> All thy commandments are truth; they persecuted me unjustly; help thou me. <sup>87</sup> They nearly made an end of me in the earth; but I forsook not thy commandments. <sup>88</sup> Quicken me according to thy mercy; so shall I keep the testimonies of thy mouth. <sup>89</sup> Thy word, O Lord, abides in heaven for ever. <sup>90</sup> Thy truth endures to all generations; thou hast founded the earth, and it abides. <sup>91</sup> The day continues by thy arrangement; for all things are thy servants. <sup>92</sup> Were it not that thy law is my meditation, then I should have perished in mine affliction. <sup>93</sup> I will never forget thine ordinances; for with them thou hast quickened me. <sup>94</sup> I am thine, save me; for I have sought out thine ordinances. <sup>95</sup> Sinners laid wait for me to destroy me; but I understood thy testimonies. <sup>96</sup> I have seen an end of all perfection; but thy commandment is very broad. <sup>97</sup> How I have loved thy law, O Lord! it is my meditation all the day. <sup>98</sup> Thou hast made me wiser than mine enemies in thy commandment; for it is mine for ever. <sup>99</sup> I have more understanding than all my teachers; for thy testimonies are my meditation. <sup>100</sup> I understand more than the aged; because I have sought out thy commandments. <sup>101</sup> I have kept back my feet from every evil way, that I might keep thy words. <sup>102</sup> I have not declined from thy judgments; for thou hast instructed me. <sup>103</sup> How sweet are thine oracles to my throat! more so than honey to my mouth! <sup>104</sup> I gain understanding by thy commandments: therefore I have hated every way of unrighteousness. <sup>105</sup> Thy law is a lamp to my feet, and a light to my paths. <sup>106</sup> I have sworn and determined to keep the judgments of thy righteousness. <sup>107</sup> I have been very greatly afflicted, O Lord: quicken me, according to thy word. <sup>108</sup> Accept, I pray thee, O Lord, the freewill-offerings of my mouth, and teach me thy judgments. <sup>109</sup> My soul is continually in thine hands; and I have not forgotten thy law. <sup>110</sup> Sinners spread a snare for me; but I erred not from thy commandments. <sup>111</sup> I have inherited thy testimonies for ever; for they are the joy of my heart. <sup>112</sup> I have inclined my heart to perform thine ordinances for ever, in return for thy mercies. <sup>113</sup> I have hated transgressors; but I have loved thy law. <sup>114</sup> Thou art my helper and my supporter; I have hoped in thy words. <sup>115</sup> Depart from me, ye evil-doers; for I will search out the commandments of my God. <sup>116</sup> Uphold me according to thy word, and quicken me; and make me not ashamed of my expectation. <sup>117</sup> Help me, and I shall be saved; and I will meditate in thine ordinances continually. <sup>118</sup> Thou hast brought to nought all that depart from thine ordinances; for their inward thought is unrighteous. <sup>119</sup> I have reckoned all the sinners of the earth as transgressors; therefore have I loved thy testimonies. <sup>120</sup> Penetrate my flesh with thy fear; for I am afraid of thy judgments. <sup>121</sup> I have done judgment and justice; deliver me not up to them that injure me. <sup>122</sup> Receive thy servant for good: let not the proud accuse me falsely. <sup>123</sup> Mine eyes have failed for thy salvation, and for the word of thy righteousness. <sup>124</sup> Deal with thy servant according to thy mercy, and teach me thine ordinances. <sup>125</sup> I am thy servant; instruct me, and I shall know thy testimonies. <sup>126</sup> It is time for the Lord to work: they have utterly broken thy law. <sup>127</sup> Therefore have I loved thy commandments more than gold, or the topaz. <sup>128</sup> Therefore I directed myself according to all thy commandments: I have hated every unjust way. <sup>129</sup> Thy testimonies are wonderful: therefore my soul has sought them out. <sup>130</sup> The manifestation of thy words will enlighten, and instruct the simple. <sup>131</sup> I opened my mouth, and drew breath: for I earnestly longed after thy commandments. <sup>132</sup> Look upon me and have mercy upon me, after the manner of them that love thy name. <sup>133</sup> Order my steps according to thy word: and let not any iniquity have dominion over me. <sup>134</sup> Deliver me from the false accusation of men: so will I keep thy commandments. <sup>135</sup> Cause thy face to shine upon thy servant: and teach me thine ordinances. <sup>136</sup> Mine eyes have been bathed in streams of water, because I kept not thy law. <sup>137</sup> Righteous art thou, O Lord, and upright are thy judgments. <sup>138</sup> Thou hast commanded righteousness and perfect truth, as thy testimonies. <sup>139</sup> Thy zeal has quite wasted me: because mine enemies have forgotten thy words. <sup>140</sup> Thy word has been very fully tried; and thy servant loves it. <sup>141</sup> I am young and despised: yet I have not forgotten thine ordinances. <sup>142</sup> Thy righteousness is an everlasting righteousness, and thy law is truth. <sup>143</sup> Afflictions and distresses found me: but thy commandments were my meditation. <sup>144</sup> Thy testimonies are an everlasting righteousness: instruct me, and I shall live. <sup>145</sup> I cried with my whole heart; hear me, O Lord: I will search out thine ordinances. <sup>146</sup> I cried to thee; save me, and I will keep thy testimonies. <sup>147</sup> I arose before the dawn, and cried: I hoped in thy words. <sup>148</sup> Mine eyes prevented the dawn, that I might meditate on thine oracles. <sup>149</sup> Hear my voice, O Lord, according to thy mercy; quicken me according to thy judgment. <sup>150</sup> They have drawn nigh who persecuted me unlawfully; and they are far removed from thy law. <sup>151</sup> Thou art near, O Lord; and all thy ways are truth. <sup>152</sup> I have known of old concerning thy testimonies, that thou hast founded them for ever. <sup>153</sup> Look upon mine affliction, and rescue me; for I have not forgotten thy law. <sup>154</sup> Plead my cause, and ransom me: quicken me because of thy word. <sup>155</sup> Salvation is far from sinners: for they have not searched out thine ordinances. <sup>156</sup> Thy mercies, O Lord, are many: quicken me according to thy judgment. <sup>157</sup> Many are they that persecute me and oppress me: but I have not declined from thy testimonies. <sup>158</sup> I beheld men acting foolishly, and I pined away; for they kept not thine oracles. <sup>159</sup> Behold, I have loved thy commandments, O Lord: quicken me in thy mercy. <sup>160</sup> The beginning of thy words is truth; and all the judgments of thy righteousness endure for ever. <sup>161</sup> Princes persecuted me without a cause, but my heart feared because of thy words. <sup>162</sup> I will exult because of thine oracles, as one that finds much spoil. <sup>163</sup> I hate and abhor unrighteousness; but I love thy law. <sup>164</sup> Seven times in a day have I praised thee because of the judgments of thy righteousness. <sup>165</sup> Great peace have they that love thy law: and there is no stumbling-block to them. <sup>166</sup> I waited for thy salvation, O Lord, and have loved thy commandments. <sup>167</sup> My soul has kept thy testimonies, and loved them exceedingly. <sup>168</sup> I have kept thy commandments and thy testimonies; for all my ways are before thee, O Lord. <sup>169</sup> Let my supplication come near before thee, O Lord; instruct me according to thine oracle. <sup>170</sup> Let my petition come in before thee, O Lord; deliver me according to thine oracle. <sup>171</sup> Let my lips utter a hymn, when thou shalt have taught me thine ordinances. <sup>172</sup> Let my tongue utter thine oracles; for all thy commandments are righteous. <sup>173</sup> Let thine hand be prompt to save me; for I have chosen thy commandments. <sup>174</sup> I have longed after thy salvation, O Lord; and thy law is my meditation. <sup>175</sup> My soul shall live, and shall praise thee; and thy judgments shall help me. <sup>176</sup> I have gone astray like a lost sheep; seek thy servant; for I have not forgotten thy commandments. 