---
title: Psalm 73
psalm: 73
previous: 72
next: 74
layout: psalm
---
<div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">1</sup> A Psalm of instruction for Asaph. Wherefore hast thou rejected us, O God, for ever? wherefore is thy wrath kindled against the sheep of thy pasture? </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">2</sup> Remember thy congregation which thou hast purchased from the beginning; thou didst ransom the rod of thine inheritance; this mount Sion wherein thou hast dwelt. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">3</sup> Lift up thine hands against their pride continually; because of all that the enemy has done wickedly in thy holy places. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">4</sup> And they that hate thee have boasted in the midst of thy feast; they have set up their standards for signs, </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">5</sup> ignorantly as it were in the entrance above; </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">6</sup> they cut down its doors at once with axes as in a wood of trees; they have broken it down with hatchet and stone cutter. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">7</sup> They have burnt thy sanctuary with fire to the ground; they have profaned the habitation of thy name. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">8</sup> They have said in their heart, even all their kindred together, Come, let us abolish the feasts of the Lord from the earth. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">9</sup> We have not seen our signs; there is no longer a prophet; and God will not know us any more. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">10</sup> How long, O God, shall the enemy reproach? shall the enemy provoke thy name for ever? </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">11</sup> Wherefore turnest thou away thine hand, and thy right hand from the midst of thy bosom for ever? </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">12</sup> But God is our King of old; he has wrought salvation in the midst of the earth. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">13</sup> Thou didst establish the sea, in thy might, thou didst break to pieces the heads of the dragons in the water. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">14</sup> Thou didst break to pieces the heads of the dragon; thou didst give him for meat to the Ethiopian nations. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">15</sup> Thou didst cleave fountains and torrents; thou driedst up mighty rivers. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">16</sup> The day is thine, and the night is thine; thou hast prepared the sun and the moon. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">17</sup> Thou hast made all the borders of the earth; thou hast made summer and spring. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">18</sup> Remember this thy creation: an enemy has reproached the Lord, and a foolish people has provoked thy name. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">19</sup> Deliver not to the wild beasts a soul that gives praise to thee: forget not for ever the souls of thy poor. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">20</sup> Look upon thy covenant: for the dark places of the earth are filled with the habitations of iniquity. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">21</sup> Let not the afflicted and shamed one be rejected: the poor and needy shall praise thy name. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">22</sup> Arise, O God, plead thy cause: remember thy reproaches that come from the foolish one all the day. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">23</sup> Forget not the voice of thy suppliants: let the pride of them that hate thee continually ascend before thee. </div>