---
title: Psalm 59
---
# Psalm 59

<sup>1</sup> For the end, for them that shall yet be changed; for an inscription by David for instruction, <sup>2</sup> when he had burned Mesopotamia of Syria, and Syria Sobal, and Joab had returned and smitten in the valley of salt twelve thousand. <sup>3</sup> O God, thou hast rejected and destroyed us; thou hast been angry, yet hast pitied us. <sup>4</sup> Thou hast shaken the earth, and troubled it; heal its breaches, for it has been shaken. <sup>5</sup> Thou hast shewn thy people hard things: thou hast made us drink the wine of astonishment. <sup>6</sup> Thou hast given a token to them that fear thee, that they might flee from the bow. Pause. <sup>7</sup> That thy beloved ones may be delivered; save with thy right hand, and hear me. <sup>8</sup> God has spoken in his holiness; I will rejoice, and divide Sicima, and measure out the valley of tents. <sup>9</sup> Galaad is mine, and Manasse is mine; and Ephraim is the strength of my head; <sup>10</sup> Judas is my king; Moab is the caldron of my hope; over Idumea will I stretch out my shoe; the Philistines have been subjected to me. <sup>11</sup> Who will lead me into the fortified city? who will guide me as far as Idumea? <sup>12</sup> Wilt not thou, O God, who hast cast us off? and wilt not thou, O God, go forth with our forces? <sup>13</sup> Give us help from trouble: for vain is the deliverance of man. <sup>14</sup> In God will we do valiantly; and he shall bring to nought them that harass us. 