---
title: Psalm 91
---
# Psalm 91

<sup>1</sup> A Psalm of a Song for the Sabbath-day. <sup>2</sup> It is a good thing to give thanks to the Lord, and to sing praises to thy name, O thou Most High; <sup>3</sup> to proclaim thy mercy in the morning, and thy truth by night, <sup>4</sup> on a psaltery of ten strings, with a song on the harp. <sup>5</sup> For thou, O Lord, hast made me glad with thy work: and in the operations of thy hands will I exult. <sup>6</sup> How have thy works been magnified, O Lord! thy thoughts are very deep. <sup>7</sup> A foolish man will not know, and a senseless man will not understand this. <sup>8</sup> When the sinners spring up as the grass, and all the workers of iniquity have watched; it is that they may be utterly destroyed for ever. <sup>9</sup> But thou, O Lord, art most high for ever. <sup>10</sup> For, behold, thine enemies shall perish; and all the workers of iniquity shall be scattered. <sup>11</sup> But my horn shall be exalted as the horn of a unicorn; and mine old age with rich mercy. <sup>12</sup> And mine eye has seen mine enemies, and mine ear shall hear the wicked that rise up against me. <sup>13</sup> The righteous shall flourish as a palm-tree: he shall be increased as the cedar in Libanus. <sup>14</sup> They that are planted in the house of the Lord shall flourish in the courts of our God. <sup>15</sup> Then shall they be increased in a fine old age; and they shall be prosperous; that they may declare <sup>16</sup> that the Lord my God is righteous, and there is no iniquity in him. 