---
title: Psalm 79
---
# Psalm 79

<sup>1</sup> For the end, for alternate strains, a testimony for Asaph, a Psalm concerning the Assyrian. <sup>2</sup> Attend, O Shepherd of Israel, who guidest Joseph like a flock; thou who sittest upon the cherubs, manifest thyself; <sup>3</sup> before Ephraim and Benjamin and Manasse, stir up thy power, and come to deliver us. <sup>4</sup> Turn us, O God, and cause thy face to shine; and we shall be delivered. <sup>5</sup> O Lord God of hosts, how long art thou angry with the prayer of thy servant? <sup>6</sup> Thou wilt feed us with bread of tears; and wilt cause us to drink tears by measure. <sup>7</sup> Thou hast made us a strife to our neighbours; and our enemies have mocked at us. <sup>8</sup> Turn us, O Lord God of hosts, and cause thy face to shine; and we shall be saved. Pause. <sup>9</sup> Thou hast transplanted a vine out of Egypt: thou hast cast out the heathen, and planted it. <sup>10</sup> Thou madest a way before it, and didst cause its roots to strike, and the land was filled with it. <sup>11</sup> Its shadow covered the mountains, and its shoots equalled the goodly cedars. <sup>12</sup> It sent forth its branches to the sea, and its shoots to the river. <sup>13</sup> Wherefore hast thou broken down its hedge, while all that pass by the way pluck it? <sup>14</sup> The boar out of the wood has laid it waste, and the wild beast has devoured it. <sup>15</sup> O God of hosts, turn, we pray thee: look on us from heaven, and behold and visit this vine; <sup>16</sup> and restore that which thy right hand has planted: and look on the son of man whom thou didst strengthen for thyself. <sup>17</sup> It is burnt with fire and dug up: they shall perish at the rebuke of thy presence. <sup>18</sup> Let thy hand be upon the man of thy right hand, and upon the son of man whom thou didst strengthen for thyself. <sup>19</sup> So will we not depart from thee: thou shalt quicken us, and we will call upon thy name. <sup>20</sup> Turn us, O Lord God of hosts, and make thy face to shine; and we shall be saved. 