---
title: Psalm 144
---
# Psalm 144

<sup>1</sup> David's Psalm of praise. I will exalt thee, my God, my king; and I will bless thy name for ever and ever. <sup>2</sup> Every day will I bless thee, and I will praise thy name for ever and ever. <sup>3</sup> The Lord is great, and greatly to be praised; and there is no end of his greatness. <sup>4</sup> Generation after generation shall praise thy works, and tell of thy power. <sup>5</sup> And they shall speak of the glorious majesty of thy holiness, and recount thy wonders. <sup>6</sup> And they shall speak of the power of thy terrible acts; and recount thy greatness. <sup>7</sup> They shall utter the memory of the abundance of thy goodness, and shall exult in thy righteousness. <sup>8</sup> The Lord is compassionate, and merciful; long-suffering, and abundant in mercy. <sup>9</sup> The Lord is good to those that wait on him; and his compassions are over all his works. <sup>10</sup> Let all thy works, O Lord, give thanks to thee; and let thy saints bless thee. <sup>11</sup> They shall speak of the glory of thy kingdom, and talk of thy dominion; <sup>12</sup> to make known to the sons of men thy power, and the glorious majesty of thy kingdom. <sup>13</sup> Thy kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and thy dominion endures through all generations. <sup>13a</sup> The Lord is faithful in his words, and holy in all his works. <sup>14</sup> The Lord supports all that are falling, and sets up all that are broken down. <sup>15</sup> The eyes of all wait upon thee; and thou givest them their food in due season. <sup>16</sup> Thou openest thine hands, and fillest every living thing with pleasure. <sup>17</sup> The Lord is righteous in all his ways, and holy in all his works. <sup>18</sup> The Lord is near to all that call upon him, to all that call upon him in truth. <sup>19</sup> He will perform the desire of them that fear him: and he will hear their supplication, and save them. <sup>20</sup> The Lord preserves all that love him: but all sinners he will utterly destroy. <sup>21</sup> My mouth shall speak the praise of the Lord: and let all flesh bless his holy name for ever and ever. 