---
title: Psalm 16
psalm: 16
previous: 15
next: 17
layout: psalm
---
<div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">1</sup> A Prayer of David. Hearken, O Lord of my righteousness, attend to my petition; give ear to my prayer not uttered with deceitful lips. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">2</sup> Let my judgment come forth from thy presence; let mine eyes behold righteousness. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">3</sup> Thou hast proved mine heart; thou hast visited me by night; thou hast tried me as with fire, and unrighteousness has not been found in me: I am purposed that my mouth shall not speak amiss. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">4</sup> As for the works of men, by the words of thy lips I have guarded myself from hard ways. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">5</sup> Direct my steps in thy paths, that my steps slip not. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">6</sup> I have cried, for thou heardest me, O God: incline thine ear to me, and hearken to my words. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">7</sup> Shew the marvels of thy mercies, thou that savest them that hope in thee. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">8</sup> Keep me as the apple of the eye from those that resist thy right hand: thou shalt screen me by the covering of thy wings, </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">9</sup> from the face of the ungodly that have afflicted me: mine enemies have compassed about my soul. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">10</sup> They have enclosed themselves with their own fat: their mouth has spoken pride. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">11</sup> They have now cast me out and compassed me round about: they have set their eyes so as to bow them down to the ground. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">12</sup> They laid wait for me as a lion ready for prey, and like a lion's whelp dwelling in secret places. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">13</sup> Arise, O Lord, prevent them, and cast them down: deliver my soul from the ungodly: draw thy sword, </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">14</sup> because of the enemies of thine hand: O Lord, destroy them from the earth; scatter them in their life, though their belly has been filled with thy hidden treasures: they have been satisfied with uncleanness, and have left the remnant of their possessions to their babes. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">15</sup> But I shall appear in righteousness before thy face: I shall be satisfied when thy glory appears. </div>