---
title: Psalm 82
---
# Psalm 82

<sup>1</sup> A Song of a Psalm for Asaph. <sup>2</sup> O God, who shall be compared to thee? be not silent, neither be still, O God. <sup>3</sup> For behold, thine enemies have made a noise; and they that hate thee have lifted up the head. <sup>4</sup> Against thy people they have craftily imagined a device, and have taken counsel against thy saints. <sup>5</sup> They have said, Come, and let us utterly destroy them out of the nation; and let the name of Israel be remembered no more at all. <sup>6</sup> For they have taken counsel together with one consent: they have made a confederacy against thee; <sup>7</sup> even the tents of the Idumeans, and the Ismaelites; Moab, and the Agarenes; <sup>8</sup> Gebal, and Ammon, and Amalec; the Philistines also, with them that dwell at Tyre. <sup>9</sup> Yea, Assur too is come with them: they have become a help to the children of Lot. Pause. <sup>10</sup> Do thou to them as to Madiam, and to Sisera; as to Jabin at the brook of Kison. <sup>11</sup> They were utterly destroyed at Aendor: they became as dung for the earth. <sup>12</sup> Make their princes as Oreb and Zeb, and Zebee and Salmana; even all their princes: <sup>13</sup> who said, Let us take to ourselves the altar of God as an inheritance. <sup>14</sup> O my God, make them as a wheel; as stubble before the face of the wind. <sup>15</sup> As fire which shall burn up a wood, as the flame may consume the mountains; <sup>16</sup> so shalt thou persecute them with thy tempest, and trouble them in thine anger. <sup>17</sup> Fill their faces with dishonour; so shall they seek thy name, O Lord. <sup>18</sup> Let them be ashamed and troubled for evermore; yea, let them be confounded and destroyed. <sup>19</sup> And let them know that thy name is Lord; that thou alone art Most High over all the earth. 