---
title: Psalm 78
psalm: 78
previous: 77
next: 79
layout: psalm
---
<div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">1</sup> A Psalm for Asaph. O God, the heathen are come into thine inheritance; they have polluted thy holy temple; they have made Jerusalem a storehouse of fruits. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">2</sup> They have given the dead bodies of thy servants to be food for the birds of the sky, the flesh of thy holy ones for the wild beasts of the earth. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">3</sup> They have shed their blood as water, round about Jerusalem; and there was none to bury them. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">4</sup> We are become a reproach to our neighbours, a scorn and derision to them that are round about us. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">5</sup> How long, O Lord? wilt thou be angry for ever? shall thy jealousy burn like fire? </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">6</sup> Pour out thy wrath upon the heathen that have not known thee, and upon the kingdoms which have not called upon thy name. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">7</sup> For they have devoured Jacob, and laid his place waste. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">8</sup> Remember not our old transgressions; let thy tender mercies speedily prevent us; for we are greatly impoverished. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">9</sup> Help us, O God our Saviour; for the glory of thy name, O Lord, deliver us; and be merciful to our sins, for thy name's sake. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">10</sup> Lest haply they should say among the heathen, Where is their God? and let the avenging of thy servants' blood that has been shed be known among the heathen before our eyes. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">11</sup> Let the groaning of the prisoners come in before thee; according to the greatness of thine arm preserve the sons of the slain ones. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">12</sup> Repay to our neighbours sevenfold into their bosom their reproach, with which they have reproached thee, O Lord. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">13</sup> For we are thy people and the sheep of thy pasture; we will give thee thanks for ever; we will declare thy praise throughout all generations. </div>