---
title: Psalm 39
psalm: 39
previous: 38
next: 40
layout: psalm
---
<div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">1</sup> For the end, a Psalm of David. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">2</sup> I waited patiently for the Lord; and he attended to me, and hearkened to my supplication. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">3</sup> And he brought me up out of a pit of misery, and from miry clay: and he set my feet on a rock, and ordered my goings aright. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">4</sup> And he put a new song into my mouth, even a hymn to our God: many shall see it, and fear, and shall hope in the Lord. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">5</sup> Blessed is the man whose hope is the name of the Lord, and who has not regarded vanities and false frenzies. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">6</sup> O Lord my God, thou hast multiplied thy wonderful works, and in thy thoughts there is none who shall be likened to thee: I declared and spoke of them: they exceeded number. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">7</sup> Sacrifice and offering thou wouldest not; but a body hast thou prepared me: whole-burnt-offering and sacrifice for sin thou didst not require. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">8</sup> Then I said, Behold, I come: in the volume of the book it is written concerning me, </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">9</sup> I desired to do thy will, O my God, and thy law in the midst of mine heart. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">10</sup> I have preached righteousness in the great congregation; lo! I will not refrain my lips; O Lord, thou knowest my righteousness. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">11</sup> I have not hid thy truth within my heart, and I have declared thy salvation; I have not hid thy mercy and thy truth from the great congregation. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">12</sup> But thou, Lord, remove not thy compassion far from me; thy mercy and thy truth have helped me continually. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">13</sup> For innumerable evils have encompassed me; my transgressions have taken hold of me, and I could not see; they are multiplied more than the hairs of my head; and my heart has failed me. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">14</sup> Be pleased, O Lord, to deliver me; O Lord, draw nigh to help me. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">15</sup> Let those that seek my soul, to destroy it, be ashamed and confounded together; let those that wish me evil be turned backward and put to shame. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">16</sup> Let those that say to me, Aha, aha, quickly receive shame for their reward. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">17</sup> Let all those that seek thee, O Lord, exult and rejoice in thee; and let them that love thy salvation say continually, The Lord be magnified. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">18</sup> But I am poor and needy; the Lord will take care of me; thou art my helper, and my defender, O my God, delay not. </div>