---
title: Psalm 108
---
# Psalm 108

<sup>1</sup> For the end, a Psalm of David. O God, pass not over my praise in silence; <sup>2</sup> for the mouth of the sinner and the mouth of the crafty man have been opened against me: they have spoken against me with a crafty tongue. <sup>3</sup> And they have compassed me with words of hatred; and fought against me without a cause. <sup>4</sup> Instead of loving me, they falsely accused me: but I continued to pray. <sup>5</sup> And they rewarded me evil for good, and hatred for my love. <sup>6</sup> Set thou a sinner against him; and let the devil stand at his right hand. <sup>7</sup> When he is judged, let him go forth condemned: and let his prayer become sin. <sup>8</sup> Let his days be few: and let another take his office of overseer. <sup>9</sup> Let his children be orphans, and his wife a widow. <sup>10</sup> Let his children wander without a dwelling-place, and beg: let them be cast out of their habitations. <sup>11</sup> Let his creditor exact all that belongs to him: and let strangers spoil his labours. <sup>12</sup> Let him have no helper; neither let there be any one to have compassion on his fatherless children. <sup>13</sup> Let his children be given up to utter destruction: in one generation let his name be blotted out. <sup>14</sup> Let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered before the Lord; and let not the sin of his mother be blotted out. <sup>15</sup> Let them be before the Lord continually; and let their memorial be blotted out from the earth. <sup>16</sup> Because he remembered not to shew mercy, but persecuted the needy and poor man, and that to slay him that was pricked in the heart. <sup>17</sup> He loved cursing also, and it shall come upon him; and he took not pleasure in blessing, so it shall be removed far from him. <sup>18</sup> Yea, he put on cursing as a garment, and it is come as water into his bowels, and as oil into his bones. <sup>19</sup> Let it be to him as a garment which he puts on, and as a girdle with which he girds himself continually. <sup>20</sup> This is the dealing of the Lord with those who falsely accuse me, and of them that speak evil against my soul. <sup>21</sup> But thou, O Lord, Lord, deal mercifully with me, for thy name's sake: for thy mercy is good. <sup>22</sup> Deliver me, for I am poor and needy; and my heart is troubled within me. <sup>23</sup> I am removed as a shadow in its going down: I am tossed up and down like locusts. <sup>24</sup> My knees are weakened through fasting, and my flesh is changed by reason of the want of oil. <sup>25</sup> I became also a reproach to them: when they saw me they shook their heads. <sup>26</sup> Help me, O Lord my God; and save me according to thy mercy. <sup>27</sup> And let them know that this is thy hand; and that thou, Lord, hast wrought it. <sup>28</sup> Let them curse, but thou shalt bless: let them that rise up against me be ashamed, but let thy servant rejoice. <sup>29</sup> Let those that falsely accuse me be clothed with shame, and let them cover themselves with their shame as with a mantle. <sup>30</sup> I will give thanks to the Lord abundantly with my mouth; and in the midst of many I will praise him. <sup>31</sup> For he stood on the right hand of the poor, to save me from them that persecute my soul. 