---
title: Psalm 102
---
# Psalm 102

<sup>1</sup> A Psalm of David. Bless the Lord, O my soul; and all that is within me, bless his holy name. <sup>2</sup> Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his praises: <sup>3</sup> who forgives all thy transgressions, who heals all thy diseases; <sup>4</sup> who redeems thy life from corruption; who crowns thee with mercy and compassion; <sup>5</sup> who satisfies thy desire with good things: so that thy youth shall be renewed like that of the eagle. <sup>6</sup> The Lord executes mercy and judgment for all that are injured. <sup>7</sup> He made known his ways to Moses, his will to the children of Israel. <sup>8</sup> The Lord is compassionate and pitiful, long-suffering, and full of mercy. <sup>9</sup> He will not be always angry; neither will he be wrathful for ever. <sup>10</sup> He has not dealt with us according to our sins, nor recompensed us according to our iniquities. <sup>11</sup> For as the heaven is high above the earth, the Lord has so increased his mercy toward them that fear him. <sup>12</sup> As far as the east is from the west, so far has he removed our transgressions from us. <sup>13</sup> As a father pities his children, the Lord pities them that fear him. <sup>14</sup> For he knows our frame: remember that we are dust. <sup>15</sup> As for man, his days are as grass; as a flower of the field, so shall he flourish. <sup>16</sup> For the wind passes over it, and it shall not be; and it shall know its place no more. <sup>17</sup> But the mercy of the Lord is from generation to generation upon them that fear him, and his righteousness to children's children; <sup>18</sup> to them that keep his covenant, and remember his commandments to do them. <sup>19</sup> The Lord has prepared his throne in the heaven; and his kingdom rules over all. <sup>20</sup> Bless the Lord, all ye his angels, mighty in strength, who perform his bidding, ready to hearken to the voice of his words. <sup>21</sup> Bless the Lord, all ye his hosts; ye ministers of his that do his will. <sup>22</sup> Bless the Lord, all his works, in every place of his dominion: bless the Lord, O my soul. 