---
title: Psalm 93
---
# Psalm 93

<sup>1</sup> A Psalm of David for the fourth day of the week. The Lord is a God of vengeance; the God of vengeance has declared himself. <sup>2</sup> Be thou exalted, thou that judgest the earth: render a reward to the proud. <sup>3</sup> How long shall sinners, O Lord, how long shall sinners boast? <sup>4</sup> They will utter and speak unrighteousness; all the workers of iniquity will speak so. <sup>5</sup> They have afflicted thy people, O Lord, and hurt thine heritage. <sup>6</sup> They have slain the widow and fatherless, and murdered the stranger. <sup>7</sup> And they said, The Lord shall not see, neither shall the God of Jacob understand. <sup>8</sup> Understand now, ye simple among the people; and ye fools, at length be wise. <sup>9</sup> He that planted the ear, does he not hear? or he that formed the eye, does not he perceive? <sup>10</sup> He that chastises the heathen, shall not he punish, even he that teaches man knowledge? <sup>11</sup> The Lord knows the thoughts of men, that they are vain. <sup>12</sup> Blessed is the man whomsoever thou shalt chasten, O Lord, and shalt teach him out of thy law; <sup>13</sup> to give him rest from evil days, until a pit be digged for the sinful one. <sup>14</sup> For the Lord will not cast off his people, neither will he forsake his inheritance; <sup>15</sup> until righteousness return to judgment, and all the upright in heart shall follow it. Pause. <sup>16</sup> Who will rise up for me against the transgressors? or who will stand up with me against the workers of iniquity? <sup>17</sup> If the Lord had not helped me, my soul had almost sojourned in Hades. <sup>18</sup> If I said, My foot has been moved; <sup>19</sup> thy mercy, O Lord, helped me. O Lord, according to the multitude of my griefs within my heart, thy consolations have soothed my soul. <sup>20</sup> Shall the throne of iniquity have fellowship with thee, which frames mischief by an ordinance? <sup>21</sup> They will hunt for the soul of the righteous, and condemn innocent blood. <sup>22</sup> But the Lord was my refuge; and my God the helper of my hope. <sup>23</sup> And he will recompense to them their iniquity and their wickedness: the Lord our God shall utterly destroy them. 