---
title: Psalm 34
psalm: 34
previous: 33
next: 35
layout: psalm
---
<div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">1</sup> A Psalm of David. Judge thou, O Lord, them that injure me, fight against them that fight against me. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">2</sup> Take hold of shield and buckler, and arise for my help. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">3</sup> Bring forth a sword, and stop the way against them that persecute me: say to my soul, I am thy salvation. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">4</sup> Let them that seek my soul be ashamed and confounded: let them that devise evils against me be turned back and put to shame. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">5</sup> Let them be as dust before the wind, and an angel of the Lord afflicting them. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">6</sup> Let their way be dark and slippery, and an angel of the Lord persecuting them. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">7</sup> For without cause they have hid for me their destructive snare: without a cause they have reproached my soul. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">8</sup> Let a snare which they know not come upon them: and the gin which they hid take them; and let them fall into the very same snare. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">9</sup> But my soul shall exult in the Lord: it shall delight in his salvation. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">10</sup> All my bones shall say, O Lord, who is like to thee? delivering the poor out of the hand of them that are stronger than he, yea, the poor and needy one from them that spoil him. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">11</sup> Unjust witnesses arose, and asked me of things I knew not. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">12</sup> They rewarded me evil for good, and bereavement to my soul. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">13</sup> But I, when they troubled me, put on sackcloth, and humbled my soul with fasting: and my prayer shall return to my own bosom. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">14</sup> I behaved agreeably towards them as if it had been our neighbour or brother: I humbled myself as one mourning and sad of countenance. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">15</sup> Yet they rejoiced against me, and plagues were plentifully brought against me, and I knew it not: they were scattered, but repented not. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">16</sup> They tempted me, they sneered at me most contemptuously, they gnashed their teeth upon me. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">17</sup> O Lord, when wilt thou look upon me? Deliver my soul from their mischief, mine only-begotten one from the lions. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">18</sup> I will give thanks to thee even in a great congregation: in an abundant people I will praise thee. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">19</sup> Let not them that are mine enemies without a cause rejoice against me; who hate me for nothing, and wink with their eyes. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">20</sup> For to me they spoke peaceably, but imagined deceits in their anger. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">21</sup> And they opened wide their mouth upon me; they said, Aha, aha, our eyes have seen it. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">22</sup> Thou hast seen it, O Lord: keep not silence: O Lord, withdraw not thyself from me. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">23</sup> Awake, O Lord, and attend to my judgment, even to my cause, my God and my Lord. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">24</sup> Judge me, O Lord, according to thy righteousness, O Lord my God; and let them not rejoice against me. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">25</sup> Let them not say in their hearts, Aha, aha, it is pleasing to our soul: neither let them say, We have devoured him. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">26</sup> Let them be confounded and ashamed together that rejoice at my afflictions: let them be clothed with shame and confusion that speak great swelling words against me. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">27</sup> Let them that rejoice in my righteousness exult and be glad: and let them say continually, The Lord be magnified, who desire the peace of his servant. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">28</sup> And my tongue shall meditate on thy righteousness, and on thy praise all the day. </div>