---
title: Psalm 85
---
# Psalm 85

<sup>1</sup> A Prayer of David. O Lord, incline thine ear, and hearken to me; for I am poor and needy. <sup>2</sup> Preserve my soul, for I am holy; save thy servant, O God, who hopes in thee. <sup>3</sup> Pity me, O Lord: for to thee will I cry all the day. <sup>4</sup> Rejoice the soul of thy servant: for to thee, O Lord, have I lifted up my soul. <sup>5</sup> For thou, O Lord, art kind, and gentle; and plenteous in mercy to all that call upon thee. <sup>6</sup> Give ear to my prayer, O Lord; and attend to the voice of my supplication. <sup>7</sup> In the day of my trouble I cried to thee: for thou didst hear me. <sup>8</sup> There is none like to thee, O Lord, among the gods; and there are no works like to thy works. <sup>9</sup> All nations whom thou hast made shall come, and shall worship before thee, O Lord; and shall glorify thy name. <sup>10</sup> For thou art great, and doest wonders: thou art the only and the great God. <sup>11</sup> Guide me, O Lord, in thy way, and I will walk in thy truth: let my heart rejoice, that I may fear thy name. <sup>12</sup> I will give thee thanks, O Lord my God, with all my heart; and I will glorify thy name for ever. <sup>13</sup> For thy mercy is great toward me; and thou hast delivered my soul from the lowest hell. <sup>14</sup> O God, transgressors have risen up against me, and an assembly of violent men have sought my life; and have not set thee before them. <sup>15</sup> But thou, O Lord God, art compassionate and merciful, long-suffering, and abundant in mercy and true. <sup>16</sup> Look thou upon me, and have mercy upon me: give thy strength to thy servant, and save the son of thine handmaid. <sup>17</sup> Establish with me a token for good; and let them that hate me see it and be ashamed; because thou, O Lord, hast helped me, and comforted me. 