---
title: Psalm 68
---
# Psalm 68

<sup>1</sup> For the end, a Psalm of David, for alternate strains. <sup>2</sup> Save me, O God; for the waters have come in to my soul. <sup>3</sup> I am stuck fast in deep mire, and there is no standing: I am come in to the depths of the sea, and a storm has overwhelmed me. <sup>4</sup> I am weary of crying, my throat has become hoarse; mine eyes have failed by my waiting on my God. <sup>5</sup> They that hate me without a cause are more than the hairs of my head: my enemies that persecute me unrighteously are strengthened: then I restored that which I took not away. <sup>6</sup> O God, thou knowest my foolishness; and my transgressions are not hidden from thee. <sup>7</sup> Let not them that wait on thee, O Lord of hosts, be ashamed on my account: let not them that seek thee, be ashamed on my account, O God of Israel. <sup>8</sup> For I have suffered reproach for thy sake; shame has covered my face. <sup>9</sup> I became strange to my brethren, and a stranger to my mother's children. <sup>10</sup> For the zeal of thine house has eaten me up; and the reproaches of them that reproached thee are fallen upon me. <sup>11</sup> And I bowed down my soul with fasting, and that was made my reproach. <sup>12</sup> And I put on sackcloth for my covering; and I became a proverb to them. <sup>13</sup> They that sit in the gate talked against me, and they that drank wine sang against me. <sup>14</sup> But I will cry to thee, O Lord, in my prayer; O God, it is a propitious time: in the multitude of thy mercy hear me, in the truth of thy salvation. <sup>15</sup> Save me from the mire, that I stick not in it: let me be delivered from them that hate me, and from the deep waters. <sup>16</sup> Let not the waterflood drown me, nor let the deep swallow me up; neither let the well shut its mouth upon me. <sup>17</sup> Hear me, O Lord; for thy mercy is good: according to the multitude of thy compassions look upon me. <sup>18</sup> And turn not away thy face from thy servant; for I am afflicted: hear me speedily. <sup>19</sup> Draw nigh to my soul and redeem it: deliver me because of mine enemies. <sup>20</sup> For thou knowest my reproach, and my shame, and my confusion; all that afflict me are before thee. <sup>21</sup> My soul has waited for reproach and misery; and I waited for one to grieve with me, but there was none; and for one to comfort me, but I found none. <sup>22</sup> They gave me also gall for my food, and made me drink vinegar for my thirst. <sup>23</sup> Let their table before them be for a snare, and for a recompence, and for a stumbling-block. <sup>24</sup> Let their eyes be darkened that they should not see; and bow down their back continually. <sup>25</sup> Pour out thy wrath upon them, and let the fury of thine anger take hold on them. <sup>26</sup> Let their habitation be made desolate; and let there be no inhabitant in their tents: <sup>27</sup> because they persecuted him whom thou hast smitten; and they have added to the grief of my wounds. <sup>28</sup> Add iniquity to their iniquity; and let them not come into thy righteousness. <sup>29</sup> Let them be blotted out of the book of the living, and let them not be written with the righteous. <sup>30</sup> I am poor and sorrowful; but the salvation of thy countenance has helped me. <sup>31</sup> I will praise the name of my God with a song, I will magnify him with praise; <sup>32</sup> and this shall please God more than a young calf having horns and hoofs. <sup>33</sup> Let the poor see and rejoice; seek the Lord diligently, and ye shall live. <sup>34</sup> For the Lord hears the poor, and does not set at nought his fettered ones. <sup>35</sup> Let the heavens and the earth praise him, the sea, and all things moving in them. <sup>36</sup> For God will save Sion, and the cities of Judea shall be built; and men shall dwell there, and inherit it. <sup>37</sup> And the seed of his servants shall possess it, and they that love his name shall dwell therein. 