---
title: Psalm 7
psalm: 7
previous: 6
next: 8
layout: psalm
---
<div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">1</sup> A Psalm of David, which he sang to the Lord because of the words of Chusi the Benjamite. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">2</sup> O Lord my God, in thee have I trusted: save me from all them that persecute me, and deliver me. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">3</sup> Lest at any time the enemy seize my soul as a lion, while there is none to ransom, nor to save. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">4</sup> O Lord my God, if I have done this; (if there is unrighteousness in my hands;) </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">5</sup> if I have requited with evil those who requited me with good; may I then perish empty by means of my enemies. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">6</sup> Let the enemy persecute my soul, and take it; and let him trample my life on the ground, and lay my glory in the dust. Pause. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">7</sup> Arise, O Lord, in thy wrath; be exalted in the utmost boundaries of mine enemies: awake, O Lord my God, according to the decree which thou didst command. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">8</sup> And the congregation of the nations shall compass thee: and for this cause do thou return on high. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">9</sup> The Lord shall judge the nations: judge me, O Lord, according to my righteousness, and according to my innocence that is in me. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">10</sup> Oh let the wickedness of sinners come to an end; and then thou shalt direct the righteous, O God that searchest the hearts and reins. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">11</sup> My help is righteous, coming from God who saves the upright in heart. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">12</sup> God is a righteous judge, and strong, and patient, not inflicting vengeance every day. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">13</sup> If ye will not repent, he will furbish his sword; he has bent his bow, and made it ready. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">14</sup> And on it he has fitted the instruments of death; he has completed his arrows for the raging ones. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">15</sup> Behold, he has travailed with unrighteousness, he has conceived trouble, and brought forth iniquity. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">16</sup> He has opened a pit, and dug it up, and he shall fall into the ditch which he has made. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">17</sup> His trouble shall return on his own head, and his unrighteousness shall come down on his own crown. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">18</sup> I will give thanks to the Lord according to his righteousness; I will sing to the name of the Lord most high. </div>