---
title: Psalm 55
---
# Psalm 55

<sup>1</sup> For the end, concerning the people that were removed from the sanctuary, by David for a memorial, when the Philistines caught him in Geth. <sup>2</sup> Have mercy upon me, O God; for man has trodden me down; all the day long he warring has afflicted me. <sup>3</sup> Mine enemies have trodden me down all the day from the dawning of the day; for there are many warring against me. <sup>4</sup> They shall be afraid, but I will trust in thee. <sup>5</sup> In God I will praise my words; all the day have I hoped in God; I will not fear what flesh shall do to me. <sup>6</sup> All the day long they have abominated my words; all their devices are against me for evil. <sup>7</sup> They will dwell near and hide themselves; they will watch my steps, accordingly as I have waited patiently in my soul. <sup>8</sup> Thou wilt on no account save them; thou wilt bring down the people in wrath. <sup>9</sup> O God, I have declared my life to thee; thou hast set my tears before thee, even according to thy promise. <sup>10</sup> Mine enemies shall be turned back, in the day wherein I shall call upon thee; behold, I know that thou art my God. <sup>11</sup> In God will I praise his word; in the Lord will I praise his saying. <sup>12</sup> I have hoped in God; I will not be afraid of what man shall do to me. <sup>13</sup> The vows of thy praise, O God, which I will pay, are upon me. <sup>14</sup> For thou hast delivered my soul from death, and my feet from sliding, that I should be well-pleasing before God in the land of the living. 