---
title: Psalm 37
---
# Psalm 37

<sup>1</sup> A Psalm of David for remembrance concerning the Sabbath-day. <sup>2</sup> O Lord, rebuke me not in thy wrath, neither chasten me in thine anger. <sup>3</sup> For thy weapons are fixed in me, and thou hast pressed thy hand heavily upon me. <sup>4</sup> For there is no health in my flesh because of thine anger; there is no peace to my bones because of my sins. <sup>5</sup> For my transgressions have gone over mine head: they have pressed heavily upon me like a weighty burden. <sup>6</sup> My bruises have become noisome and corrupt, because of my foolishness. <sup>7</sup> I have been wretched and bowed down continually: I went with a mourning countenance all the day. <sup>8</sup> For my soul is filled with mockings; and there is no health in my flesh. <sup>9</sup> I have been afflicted and brought down exceedingly: I have roared for the groaning of my heart. <sup>10</sup> But all my desire is before thee; and my groaning is not hidden from thee. <sup>11</sup> My heart is troubled, my strength has failed me; and the light of mine eyes is not with me. <sup>12</sup> My friends and my neighbours drew near before me, and stood still; and my nearest of kin stood afar off. <sup>13</sup> While they pressed hard upon me that sought my soul: and they that sought my hurt spoke vanities, and devised deceits all the day. <sup>14</sup> But I, as a deaf man, heard not; and was as a dumb man not opening his mouth. <sup>15</sup> And I was as a man that hears not, and who has no reproofs in his mouth. <sup>16</sup> For I hoped in thee, O Lord: thou wilt hear, O Lord my God. <sup>17</sup> For I said, Lest mine enemies rejoice against me: for when my feet were moved, they spoke boastingly against me. <sup>18</sup> For I am ready for plagues, and my grief is continually before me. <sup>19</sup> For I will declare mine iniquity, and be distressed for my sin. <sup>20</sup> But mine enemies live, and are mightier than I: and they that hate me unjustly are multiplied. <sup>21</sup> They that reward evil for good slandered me; because I followed righteousness. <sup>22</sup> Forsake me not, O Lord my God: depart not from me. <sup>23</sup> Draw nigh to my help, O Lord of my salvation. 