---
title: Psalm 33
---
# Psalm 33

<sup>1</sup> A Psalm of David, when he changed his countenance before Abimelech; and he let him go, and he departed. <sup>2</sup> I will bless the Lord at all times: his praise shall be continually in my mouth. <sup>3</sup> My soul shall boast herself in the Lord: let the meek hear, and rejoice. <sup>4</sup> Magnify ye the Lord with me, and let us exalt his name together. <sup>5</sup> I sought the Lord diligently, and he hearkened to me, and delivered me from all my sojournings. <sup>6</sup> Draw near to him, and be enlightened: and your faces shall not by any means be ashamed. <sup>7</sup> This poor man cried, and the Lord hearkened to him, and delivered him out of all his afflictions. <sup>8</sup> The angel of the Lord will encamp round about them that fear him, and will deliver them. <sup>9</sup> Taste and see that the Lord is good: blessed is the man who hopes in him. <sup>10</sup> Fear the Lord, all ye his saints: for there is no want to them that fear him. <sup>11</sup> The rich have become poor and hungry: but they that seek the Lord diligently shall not want any good thing. Pause. <sup>12</sup> Come, ye children, hear me: I will teach you the fear of the Lord. <sup>13</sup> What man is there that desires life, loving to see good days? <sup>14</sup> Keep thy tongue from evil, and thy lips from speaking guile. <sup>15</sup> Turn away from evil, and do good; seek peace, and pursue it. <sup>16</sup> The eyes of the Lord are over the righteous, and his ears are open to their prayer: <sup>17</sup> but the face of the Lord is against them that do evil, to destroy their memorial from the earth. The righteous cried, and the Lord hearkened to them, <sup>18</sup> and delivered them out of all their afflictions. <sup>19</sup> The Lord is near to them that are of a contrite heart; and will save the lowly in spirit. <sup>20</sup> Many are the afflictions of the righteous: but out of them all the Lord will deliver them. <sup>21</sup> He keeps all their bones: not one of them shall be broken. <sup>22</sup> The death of sinners is evil: and they that hate righteousness will go wrong. <sup>23</sup> The Lord will redeem the souls of his servants: and none of those that hope in him shall go wrong. 