---
title: Psalm 135
---
# Psalm 135

<sup>1</sup> Alleluia. Give thanks to the Lord: for he is good: for his mercy endures for ever. <sup>2</sup> Give thanks to the God of gods: for his mercy endures for ever. <sup>3</sup> Give thanks to the Lord of lords: for his mercy endures for ever. <sup>4</sup> To him who alone has wrought great wonders: for his mercy endures for ever. <sup>5</sup> To him who made the heavens by understanding; for his mercy endures for ever. <sup>6</sup> To him who established the earth on the waters; for his mercy endures for ever. <sup>7</sup> To him who alone made great lights; for his mercy endures for ever. <sup>8</sup> The sun to rule the day; for his mercy endures for ever. <sup>9</sup> The moon and the stars to rule the night; for his mercy endures for ever. <sup>10</sup> To him who smote Egypt with their first-born; for his mercy endures for ever. <sup>11</sup> And brought Israel out of the midst of them; for his mercy endures for ever: <sup>12</sup> with a strong hand, and a high arm: for his mercy endures for ever. <sup>13</sup> To him who divided the Red Sea into parts: for his mercy endures for ever: <sup>14</sup> and brought Israel through the midst of it: for his mercy endures for ever: <sup>15</sup> and overthrew Pharao and his host in the Red Sea: for his mercy endures for ever. <sup>16</sup> To him who led his people through the wilderness: for his mercy endures for ever. <sup>17</sup> To him who smote great kings: for his mercy endures for ever: <sup>18</sup> and slew mighty kings; for his mercy endures for ever: <sup>19</sup> Seon king of the Amorites: for his mercy endures for ever: <sup>20</sup> and Og king of Basan: for his mercy endures for ever: <sup>21</sup> and gave their land for an inheritance: for his mercy endures for ever: <sup>22</sup> even an inheritance to Israel his servant: for his mercy endures for ever. <sup>23</sup> For the Lord remembered us in our low estate; for his mercy endures for ever: <sup>24</sup> and redeemed us from our enemies; for his mercy endures for ever. <sup>25</sup> Who gives food to all flesh; for his mercy endures for ever. <sup>26</sup> Give thanks to the God of heaven; for his mercy endures for ever. 