---
title: Psalm 41
---
# Psalm 41

<sup>1</sup> For the end, a Psalm for instruction, for the sons of Core. <sup>2</sup> As the hart earnestly desires the fountains of water, so my soul earnestly longs for thee, O God. <sup>3</sup> My soul has thirsted for the living God: when shall I come and appear before God? <sup>4</sup> My tears have been bread to me day and night, while they daily said to me, Where is thy God? <sup>5</sup> I remembered these things, and poured out my soul in me, for I will go to the place of thy wondrous tabernacle, even to the house of God, with a voice of exultation and thanksgiving and of the sound of those who keep festival. <sup>6</sup> Wherefore art thou very sad, O my soul? and wherefore dost thou trouble me? hope in God; for I will give thanks to him; he is the salvation of my countenance. <sup>7</sup> O my God, my soul has been troubled within me: therefore will I remember thee from the land of Jordan, and of the Ermonites, from the little hill. <sup>8</sup> Deep calls to deep at the voice of thy cataracts: all thy billows and thy waves have gone over me. <sup>9</sup> By day the Lord will command his mercy, and manifest it by night: with me is prayer to the God of my life. <sup>10</sup> I will say to God, Thou art my helper; why hast thou forgotten me? wherefore do I go sad of countenance, while the enemy oppresses me? <sup>11</sup> While my bones were breaking, they that afflicted me reproached me; while they said to me daily, Where is thy God? <sup>12</sup> Wherefore art thou very sad, O my soul? and wherefore dost thou trouble me? hope in God; for I will give thanks to him; he is the health of my countenance, and my God. 