---
title: Psalm 89
psalm: 89
previous: 88
next: 90
layout: psalm
---
<div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">1</sup> A Prayer of Moses the man of God. Lord, thou hast been our refuge in all generations. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">2</sup> Before the mountains existed, and before the earth and the world were formed, even from age to age, Thou art. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">3</sup> Turn not man back to his low place, whereas thou saidst, Return, ye sons of men? </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">4</sup> For a thousand years in thy sight are as the yesterday which is past, and as a watch in the night. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">5</sup> Years shall be vanity to them: let the morning pass away as grass. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">6</sup> In the morning let it flower, and pass away: in the evening let it droop, let it be withered and dried up. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">7</sup> For we have perished in thine anger, and in thy wrath we have been troubled. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">8</sup> Thou hast set our transgressions before thee: our age is in the light of thy countenance. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">9</sup> For all our days are gone, and we have passed away in thy wrath: our years have spun out their tale as a spider. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">10</sup> As for the days of our years, in them are seventy years; and if men should be in strength, eighty years: and the greater part of them would be labour and trouble; for weakness overtakes us, and we shall be chastened. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">11</sup> Who knows the power of thy wrath? </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">12</sup> and who knows how to number his days because of the fear of thy wrath? So manifest thy right hand, and those that are instructed in wisdom in the heart. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">13</sup> Return, O Lord, how long? and be intreated concerning thy servants. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">14</sup> We have been satisfied in the morning with thy mercy; and we did exult and rejoice: </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">15</sup> let us rejoice in all our days, in return for the days wherein thou didst afflict us, the years wherein we saw evil. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">16</sup> And look upon thy servants, and upon thy works; and guide their children. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">17</sup> And let the brightness of the Lord our God be upon us: and do thou direct for us the works of our hands. </div>