---
title: Psalm 43
---
# Psalm 43

<sup>1</sup> For the end, a Psalm for instruction, for the sons of Core. <sup>2</sup> O God, we have heard with our ears, our fathers have told us, the work which thou wroughtest in their days, in the days of old. <sup>3</sup> Thine hand utterly destroyed the heathen, and thou didst plant them: thou didst afflict the nations, and cast them out. <sup>4</sup> For they inherited not the land by their own sword, and their own arm did not deliver them; but thy right hand, and thine arm, and the light of thy countenance, because thou wert well pleased in them. <sup>5</sup> Thou art indeed my King and my God, who commandest deliverances for Jacob. <sup>6</sup> In thee will we push down our enemies, and in thy name will we bring to nought them that rise up against us. <sup>7</sup> For I will not trust in my bow, and my sword shall not save me. <sup>8</sup> For thou hast saved us from them that afflicted us, and hast put to shame them that hated us. <sup>9</sup> In God will we make our boast all the day, and to thy name will we give thanks for ever. Pause. <sup>10</sup> But now thou hast cast off, and put us to shame; and thou wilt not go forth with our hosts. <sup>11</sup> Thou hast turned us back before our enemies; and they that hated us spoiled for themselves. <sup>12</sup> Thou madest us as sheep for meat; and thou scatteredst us among the nations. <sup>13</sup> Thou hast sold thy people without price, and there was no profit by their exchange. <sup>14</sup> Thou hast made us a reproach to our neighbours, a scorn and derision to them that are round about us. <sup>15</sup> Thou hast made us a proverb among the Gentiles, a shaking of the head among the nations. <sup>16</sup> All the day my shame is before me, and the confusion of my face has covered me, <sup>17</sup> because of the voice of the slanderer and reviler; because of the enemy and avenger. <sup>18</sup> All these things are come upon us: but we have not forgotten thee, neither have we dealt unrighteously in thy covenant. <sup>19</sup> And our heart has not gone back; but thou hast turned aside our paths from thy way. <sup>20</sup> For thou hast laid us low in a place of affliction, and the shadow of death has covered us. <sup>21</sup> If we have forgotten the name of our God, and if we have spread out our hands to a strange god; shall not God search these things out? <sup>22</sup> for he knows the secrets of the heart. <sup>23</sup> For, for thy sake we are killed all the day long; we are counted as sheep for slaughter. <sup>24</sup> Awake, wherefore sleepest thou, O Lord? arise, and do not cast us off for ever. <sup>25</sup> Wherefore turnest thou thy face away, and forgettest our poverty and our affliction? <sup>26</sup> For our soul has been brought down to the dust; our belly has cleaved to the earth. <sup>27</sup> Arise, O Lord, help us, and redeem us for thy name's sake. 