---
title: Psalm 44
psalm: 44
previous: 43
next: 45
layout: psalm
---
<div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">1</sup> For the end, for alternate strains by the sons of Core; for instruction, a Song concerning the beloved. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">2</sup> My heart has uttered a good matter: I declare my works to the king: my tongue is the pen of a quick writer. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">3</sup> Thou art more beautiful than the sons of men: grace has been shed forth on thy lips: therefore God has blessed thee for ever. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">4</sup> Gird thy sword upon thy thigh, O Mighty One, in thy comeliness, and in thy beauty; </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">5</sup> and bend thy bow, and prosper, and reign, because of truth and meekness and righteousness; and thy right hand shall guide thee wonderfully. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">6</sup> Thy weapons are sharpened, Mighty One, (the nations shall fall under thee) they are in the heart of the king's enemies. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">7</sup> Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever: the sceptre of thy kingdom is a sceptre of righteousness. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">8</sup> Thou hast loved righteousness, and hated iniquity: therefore God, thy God, has anointed thee with the oil of gladness beyond thy fellows. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">9</sup> Myrrh, and stacte, and cassia are exhaled from thy garments, and out of the ivory palaces, </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">10</sup> with which kings' daughters have gladdened thee for thine honour: the queen stood by on thy right hand, clothed in vesture wrought with gold, and arrayed in divers colours. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">11</sup> Hear, O daughter, and see, and incline thine ear; forget also thy people, and thy father's house. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">12</sup> Because the king has desired thy beauty; for he is thy Lord. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">13</sup> And the daughter of Tyre shall adore him with gifts; the rich of the people of the land shall supplicate thy favour. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">14</sup> All her glory is that of the daughter of the king of Esebon, robed as she is in golden fringed garments, </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">15</sup> in embroidered clothing: virgins shall be brought to the king after her: her fellows shall be brought to thee. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">16</sup> They shall be brought with gladness and exultation: they shall be led into the king's temple. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">17</sup> Instead of thy fathers children are born to thee: thou shalt make them princes over all the earth. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">18</sup> They shall make mention of thy name from generation to generation: therefore shall the nations give thanks to thee for ever, even for ever and ever. </div>