---
title: Psalm 24
---
# Psalm 24

<sup>1</sup> A Psalm of David. To thee, O Lord, have I lifted up my soul. <sup>2</sup> O my God, I have trusted in thee: let me not be confounded, neither let mine enemies laugh me to scorn. <sup>3</sup> For none of them that wait on thee shall in any wise be ashamed: let them be ashamed that transgress without cause. <sup>4</sup> Shew me thy ways, O Lord; and teach me thy paths. <sup>5</sup> Lead me in thy truth, and teach me: for thou art God my Saviour: and I have waited on thee all the day. <sup>6</sup> Remember thy compassions, O Lord, and thy mercies, for they are from everlasting. <sup>7</sup> Remember not the sins of my youth, nor my sins of ignorance: remember me according to thy mercy, for thy goodness' sake, O Lord. <sup>8</sup> Good and upright is the Lord: therefore will he instruct sinners in the way. <sup>9</sup> The meek will he guide in judgment: the meek will he teach his ways. <sup>10</sup> All the ways of the Lord are mercy and truth to them that seek his covenant and his testimonies. <sup>11</sup> For thy name's sake, O Lord, do thou also be merciful to my sin; for it is great. <sup>12</sup> Who is the man that fears the Lord? he shall instruct him in the way which he has chosen. <sup>13</sup> His soul shall dwell in prosperity; and his seed shall inherit the earth. <sup>14</sup> The Lord is the strength of them that fear him; and his covenant is to manifest truth to them. <sup>15</sup> Mine eyes are continually to the Lord; for he shall draw my feet out of the snare. <sup>16</sup> Look upon me, and have mercy upon me; for I am an only child and poor. <sup>17</sup> The afflictions of my heart have been multiplied; deliver me from my distresses. <sup>18</sup> Look upon mine affliction and my trouble; and forgive all my sins. <sup>19</sup> Look upon mine enemies; for they have been multiplied; and they have hated me with unjust hatred. <sup>20</sup> Keep my soul, and deliver me: let me not be ashamed; for I have hoped in thee. <sup>21</sup> The harmless and upright joined themselves to me: for I waited for thee, O Lord. <sup>22</sup> Deliver Israel, O God, out of all his afflictions. 