---
title: Psalm 131
---
# Psalm 131

<sup>1</sup> A Song of Degrees. Lord, remember David, and all his meekness: <sup>2</sup> how he sware to the Lord, and vowed to the God of Jacob, saying, <sup>3</sup> I will not go into the tabernacle of my house; I will not go up to the couch of my bed; <sup>4</sup> I will not give sleep to mine eyes, nor slumber to mine eyelids, nor rest to my temples, <sup>5</sup> until I find a place for the Lord, a tabernacle for the God of Jacob. <sup>6</sup> Behold, we heard of it in Ephratha; we found it in the fields of the wood. <sup>7</sup> Let us enter into his tabernacles: let us worship at the place where his feet stood. <sup>8</sup> Arise, O Lord, into thy rest; thou, and the ark of thine holiness. <sup>9</sup> Thy priests shall clothe themselves with righteousness; and thy saints shall exult. <sup>10</sup> For the sake of thy servant David turn not away the face of thine anointed. <sup>11</sup> The Lord sware in truth to David, and he will not annul it, saying, Of the fruit of thy body will I set a king upon thy throne. <sup>12</sup> If thy children will keep my covenant, and these my testimonies which I shall teach them, their children also shall sit upon thy throne for ever. <sup>13</sup> For the Lord has elected Sion, he has chosen her for a habitation for himself, saying, <sup>14</sup> This is my rest for ever: here will I dwell; for I have chosen it. <sup>15</sup> I will surely bless her provision: I will satisfy her poor with bread. <sup>16</sup> I will clothe her priests with salvation; and her saints shall greatly exult. <sup>17</sup> There will I cause to spring up a horn to David: I have prepared a lamp for mine anointed. <sup>18</sup> His enemies will I clothe with shame; but upon himself shall my holiness flourish. 