---
title: Psalm 70
psalm: 70
previous: 69
next: 71
layout: psalm
---
<div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">1</sup> By David, a Psalm sung by the sons of Jonadab, and the first that were taken captive. O Lord, I have hoped in thee: let me never be put to shame. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">2</sup> In thy righteousness deliver me and rescue me: incline thine ear to me, and save me. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">3</sup> Be to me a protecting God, and a strong hold to save me: for thou art my fortress and my refuge. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">4</sup> Deliver me, O my God, from the hand of the sinner, from the hand of the transgressor and unjust man. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">5</sup> For thou art my support, O Lord; O Lord, thou art my hope from my youth. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">6</sup> On thee have I been stayed from the womb: from the belly of my mother thou art my protector: of thee is my praise continually. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">7</sup> I am become as it were a wonder to many; but thou art my strong helper. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">8</sup> Let my mouth be filled with praise, that I may hymn thy glory, and thy majesty all the day. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">9</sup> Cast me not off at the time of old age; forsake me not when my strength fails. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">10</sup> For mine enemies have spoken against me; and they that lay wait for my soul have taken counsel together, </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">11</sup> saying, God has forsaken him: persecute ye and take him; for there is none to deliver him. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">12</sup> O God, go not far from me, O my God, draw nigh to my help. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">13</sup> Let those that plot against my soul be ashamed and utterly fail: let those that seek my hurt be clothed with shame and dishonour. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">14</sup> But I will hope continually, and will praise thee more and more. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">15</sup> My mouth shall declare thy righteousness openly, and thy salvation all the day; for I am not acquainted with the affairs of men. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">16</sup> I will go on in the might of the Lord: O Lord, I will make mention of thy righteousness only. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">17</sup> O God, thou hast taught me from my youth, and until now will I declare thy wonders; </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">18</sup> even until I am old and advanced in years. O God, forsake me not; until I shall have declared thine arm to all the generation that is to come: </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">19</sup> even thy power and thy righteousness, O God, up to the highest heavens, even the mighty works which thou hast done: O God, who is like to thee? </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">20</sup> What afflictions many and sore hast thou shewed me! yet thou didst turn and quicken me, and broughtest me again from the depths of the earth. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">21</sup> Thou didst multiply thy righteousness, and didst turn and comfort me, and broughtest me again out of the depths of the earth. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">22</sup> I will also therefore give thanks to thee, O God, because of thy truth, on an instrument of psalmody: I will sing psalms to thee on the harp, O Holy One of Israel. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">23</sup> My lips shall rejoice when I sing to thee; and my soul, which thou hast redeemed. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">24</sup> Moreover also my tongue shall dwell all the day upon thy righteousness; when they shall be ashamed and confounded that seek my hurt. </div>