---
title: Psalm 117
---
# Psalm 117

<sup>1</sup> Alleluia. Give thanks to the Lord; for he is good: for his mercy endures for ever. <sup>2</sup> Let now the house of Israel say, that he is good: for his mercy endures for ever. <sup>3</sup> Let now the house of Aaron say, that he is good: for his mercy endures for ever. <sup>4</sup> Let now all that fear the Lord say, that he is good: for his mercy endures for ever. <sup>5</sup> I called on the Lord out of affliction: and he hearkened to me, so as to bring me into a wide place. <sup>6</sup> The Lord is my helper; and I will not fear what man shall do to me. <sup>7</sup> The Lord is my helper; and I shall see my desire upon mine enemies. <sup>8</sup> It is better to trust in the Lord than to trust in man. <sup>9</sup> It is better to hope in the Lord, than to hope in princes. <sup>10</sup> All nations compassed me about: but in the name of the Lord I repulsed them. <sup>11</sup> They completely compassed me about: but in the name of the Lord I repulsed them. <sup>12</sup> They compassed me about as bees do a honeycomb, and they burst into flame as fire among thorns: but in the name of the Lord I repulsed them. <sup>13</sup> I was thrust, and sorely shaken, that I might fall: but the Lord helped me. <sup>14</sup> The Lord is my strength and my song, and is become my salvation. <sup>15</sup> The voice of exultation and salvation is in the tabernacles of the righteous: the right hand of the Lord has wrought mightily. <sup>16</sup> The right hand of the Lord has exalted me: the right hand of the Lord has wrought powerfully. <sup>17</sup> I shall not die, but live, and recount the works of the Lord. <sup>18</sup> The Lord has chastened me sore: but he has not given me up to death. <sup>19</sup> Open to me the gates of righteousness: I will go into them, and give praise to the Lord. <sup>20</sup> This is the gate of the Lord: the righteous shall enter by it. <sup>21</sup> I will give thanks to thee; because thou hast heard me, and art become my salvation. <sup>22</sup> The stone which the builders rejected, the same is become the head of the corner. <sup>23</sup> This has been done of the Lord; and it is wonderful in our eyes. <sup>24</sup> This is the day which the Lord has made: let us exult and rejoice in it. <sup>25</sup> O Lord, save now: O Lord, send now prosperity. <sup>26</sup> Blessed is he that comes in the name of the Lord: we have blessed you out of the house of the Lord. <sup>27</sup> God is the Lord, and he has shined upon us: celebrate the feast with thick branches, binding the victims even to the horns of the altar. <sup>28</sup> Thou art my God, and I will give thee thanks: thou art my God, and I will exalt thee. I will give thanks to thee, for thou hast heard me, and art become my salvation. <sup>29</sup> Give thanks to the Lord; for he is good: for his mercy endures for ever. 