---
title: Psalm 64
psalm: 64
previous: 63
next: 65
layout: psalm
---
<div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">1</sup> For the end, a Psalm and Song of David. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">2</sup> Praise becomes thee, O God, in Sion; and to thee shall the vow be performed. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">3</sup> Hear my prayer; to thee all flesh shall come. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">4</sup> The words of transgressors have overpowered us; but do thou pardon our sins. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">5</sup> Blessed is he whom thou hast chosen and adopted; he shall dwell in thy courts; we shall be filled with the good things of thy house; thy temple is holy. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">6</sup> Thou art wonderful in righteousness. Hearken to us, O God our Saviour; the hope of all the ends of the earth, and of them that are on the sea afar off: </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">7</sup> who dost establish the mountains in thy strength, being girded about with power; </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">8</sup> who troublest the depth of the sea, the sounds of its waves. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">9</sup> The nations shall be troubled, and they that inhabit the ends of the earth shall be afraid of thy signs; thou wilt cause the outgoings of morning and evening to rejoice. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">10</sup> Thou hast visited the earth, and saturated it; thou hast abundantly enriched it. The river of God is filled with water; thou hast prepared their food, for thus is the preparation of it. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">11</sup> Saturate her furrows, multiply her fruits; the crop springing up shall rejoice in its drops. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">12</sup> Thou wilt bless the crown of the year because of thy goodness; and thy plains shall be filled with fatness. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">13</sup> The mountains of the wilderness shall be enriched; and the hills shall gird themselves with joy. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">14</sup> The rams of the flock are clothed with wool, and the valleys shall abound in corn; they shall cry aloud, yea they shall sing hymns. </div>