---
title: Psalm 49
---
# Psalm 49

<sup>1</sup> A Psalm for Asaph. The God of gods, the Lord, has spoken, and called the earth from the rising of the sun to the going down thereof. <sup>2</sup> Out of Sion comes the excellence of his beauty. <sup>3</sup> God, our God, shall come manifestly, and shall not keep silence: a fire shall be kindled before him, and round about him there shall be a very great tempest. <sup>4</sup> He shall summon the heaven above, and the earth, that he may judge his people. <sup>5</sup> Assemble ye his saints to him, those that have engaged in a covenant with him upon sacrifices. <sup>6</sup> And the heavens shall declare his righteousness: for God is judge. Pause. <sup>7</sup> Hear, my people, and I will speak to thee, O Israel: and I will testify to thee: I am God, thy God. <sup>8</sup> I will not reprove thee on account of thy sacrifices; for thy whole-burnt-offerings are before me continually. <sup>9</sup> I will take no bullocks out of thine house, nor he-goats out of thy flocks. <sup>10</sup> For all the wild beasts of the thicket are mine, the cattle on the mountains, and oxen. <sup>11</sup> I know all the birds of the sky; and the beauty of the field is mine. <sup>12</sup> If I should be hungry, I will not tell thee: for the world is mine, and the fulness of it. <sup>13</sup> Will I eat the flesh of bulls, or drink the blood of goats? <sup>14</sup> Offer to God the sacrifice of praise; and pay thy vows to the Most High. <sup>15</sup> And call upon me in the day of affliction; and I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me. Pause. <sup>16</sup> But to the sinner God has said, Why dost thou declare my ordinances, and take up my covenant in thy mouth? <sup>17</sup> Whereas thou hast hated instruction, and hast cast my words behind thee. <sup>18</sup> If thou sawest a thief, thou rannest along with him, and hast cast in thy lot with adulterers. <sup>19</sup> Thy mouth has multiplied wickedness, and thy tongue has framed deceit. <sup>20</sup> Thou didst sit and speak against thy brother, and didst scandalise thy mother's son. <sup>21</sup> These things thou didst, and I kept silence: thou thoughtest wickedly that I should be like thee; but I will reprove thee, and set thine offences before thee. <sup>22</sup> Now consider these things, ye that forget God, lest he rend you, and there be no deliverer. <sup>23</sup> The sacrifice of praise will glorify me: and that is the way wherein I will shew to him the salvation of God. 