---
title: Psalm 113
---
# Psalm 113

<sup>1</sup> Alleluia. At the going forth of Israel from Egypt, of the house of Jacob from a barbarous people, <sup>2</sup> Judea became his sanctuary, and Israel his dominion. <sup>3</sup> The sea saw and fled: Jordan was turned back. <sup>4</sup> The mountains skipped like rams, and the hills like lambs. <sup>5</sup> What ailed thee, O sea, that thou fleddest? and thou Jordan, that thou wast turned back? <sup>6</sup> Ye mountains, that ye skipped like rams, and ye hills, like lambs? <sup>7</sup> The earth trembled at the presence of the Lord, at the presence of the God of Jacob; <sup>8</sup> who turned the rock into pools of water, and the flint into fountains of water. <sup>9</sup> Not to us, O Lord, not to us, but to thy name give glory, because of thy mercy and thy truth; <sup>10</sup> lest at any time the nations should say, Where is their God? <sup>11</sup> But our God has done in heaven and on earth, whatsoever he has pleased. <sup>12</sup> The idols of the nations are silver and gold, the works of men's hands. <sup>13</sup> They have a mouth, but they cannot speak; they have eyes, but they cannot see: <sup>14</sup> they have ears, but they cannot hear; they have noses, but they cannot smell; <sup>15</sup> they have hands, but they cannot handle; they have feet, but they cannot walk: they cannot speak through their throat. <sup>16</sup> Let those that make them become like to them, and all who trust in them. <sup>17</sup> The house of Israel trusts in the Lord: he is their helper and defender. <sup>18</sup> The house of Aaron trusts in the Lord: he is their helper and defender. <sup>19</sup> They that fear the Lord trust in the Lord: he is their helper and defender. <sup>20</sup> The Lord has remembered us, and blessed us: he has blessed the house of Israel, he has blessed the house of Aaron. <sup>21</sup> He has blessed them that fear the Lord, both small and great. <sup>22</sup> The Lord add blessings to you and to your children. <sup>23</sup> Blessed are ye of the Lord, who made the heaven and the earth. <sup>24</sup> The heaven of heavens belongs to the Lord: but he has given the earth to the sons of men. <sup>25</sup> The dead shall not praise thee, O Lord, nor any that go down to Hades. <sup>26</sup> But we, the living, will bless the Lord, from henceforth and for ever. 