---
title: Psalm 50
---
# Psalm 50

<sup>1</sup> For the end, a Psalm of David, <sup>2</sup> when Nathan the prophet came to him, when he had gone in to Bersabee. <sup>3</sup> Have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy great mercy; and according to the multitude of thy compassions blot out my transgression. <sup>4</sup> Wash me thoroughly from mine iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin. <sup>5</sup> For I am conscious of mine iniquity; and my sin is continually before me. <sup>6</sup> Against thee only have I sinned, and done evil before thee: that thou mightest be justified in thy sayings, and mightest overcome when thou art judged. <sup>7</sup> For, behold, I was conceived in iniquities, and in sins did my mother conceive me. <sup>8</sup> For, behold, thou lovest truth: thou hast manifested to me the secret and hidden things of thy wisdom. <sup>9</sup> Thou shalt sprinkle me with hyssop, and I shall be purified: thou shalt wash me, and I shall be made whiter than snow. <sup>10</sup> Thou shalt cause me to hear gladness and joy: the afflicted bones shall rejoice. <sup>11</sup> Turn away thy face from my sins, and blot out all mine iniquities. <sup>12</sup> Create in me a clean heart, O God; and renew a right spirit in my inward parts. <sup>13</sup> Cast me not away from thy presence; and remove not thy Holy Spirit from me. <sup>14</sup> Restore to me the joy of thy salvation: establish me with thy directing Spirit. <sup>15</sup> Then will I teach transgressors thy ways; and ungodly men shall turn to thee. <sup>16</sup> Deliver me from blood-guiltiness, O God, the God of my salvation: and my tongue shall joyfully declare thy righteousness. <sup>17</sup> O Lord, thou shalt open my lips; and my mouth shall declare thy praise. <sup>18</sup> For if thou desiredst sacrifice, I would have given it: thou wilt not take pleasure in whole-burnt-offerings. <sup>19</sup> Sacrifice to God is a broken spirit: a broken and humbled heart God will not despise. <sup>20</sup> Do good, O Lord, to Sion in thy good pleasure; and let the walls of Jerusalem be built. <sup>21</sup> Then shalt thou be pleased with a sacrifice of righteousness, offering, and whole-burnt-sacrifices: then shall they offer calves upon thine altar. 