---
title: Psalm 71
psalm: 71
previous: 70
next: 72
layout: psalm
---
<div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">1</sup> For Solomon. O God, give thy judgment to the king, and thy righteousness to the king's son; </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">2</sup> that he may judge thy people with righteousness, and thy poor with judgment. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">3</sup> Let the mountains and the hills raise peace to thy people: </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">4</sup> he shall judge the poor of the people in righteousness, and save the children of the needy; and shall bring low the false accuser. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">5</sup> And he shall continue as long as the sun, and before the moon for ever. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">6</sup> He shall come down as rain upon a fleece; and as drops falling upon the earth. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">7</sup> In his days shall righteousness spring up; and abundance of peace till the moon be removed. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">8</sup> And he shall have dominion from sea to sea, and from the river to the ends of the earth. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">9</sup> The Ethiopians shall fall down before him; and his enemies shall lick the dust. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">10</sup> The kings of Tharsis, and the isles, shall bring presents: the kings of the Arabians and Saba shall offer gifts. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">11</sup> And all kings shall worship him; all the Gentiles shall serve him. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">12</sup> For he has delivered the poor from the oppressor; and the needy who had no helper. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">13</sup> He shall spare the poor and needy, and shall deliver the souls of the needy. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">14</sup> He shall redeem their souls from usury and injustice: and their name shall be precious before him. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">15</sup> And he shall live, and there shall be given him of the gold of Arabia: and men shall pray for him continually; and all the day shall they praise him. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">16</sup> There shall be an establishment on the earth on the tops of the mountains: the fruit thereof shall be exalted above Libanus, and they of the city shall flourish as grass of the earth. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">17</sup> Let his name be blessed for ever: his name shall endure longer than the sun: and all the tribes of the earth shall be blessed in him: all nations shall call him blessed. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">18</sup> Blessed is the Lord God of Israel, who alone does wonders. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">19</sup> And blessed is his glorious name for ever, even for ever and ever: and all the earth shall be filled with his glory. So be it, so be it. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">20</sup> The hymns of David the son of Jessæ are ended. </div>