---
title: Psalm 30
psalm: 30
previous: 29
next: 31
layout: psalm
---
<div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">1</sup> For the end, a Psalm of David, an utterance of extreme fear. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">2</sup> O Lord, I have hoped in thee; let me never be ashamed: deliver me in thy righteousness and rescue me. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">3</sup> Incline thine ear to me; make haste to rescue me: be thou to me for a protecting God, and for a house of refuge to save me. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">4</sup> For thou art my strength and my refuge; and thou shalt guide me for thy name's sake, and maintain me. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">5</sup> Thou shalt bring me out of the snare which they have hidden for me; for thou, O Lord, art my defender. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">6</sup> Into thine hands I will commit my spirit: thou hast redeemed me, O Lord God of truth. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">7</sup> Thou hast hated them that idly persist in vanities: but I have hoped in the Lord. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">8</sup> I will exult and be glad in thy mercy: for thou hast looked upon mine affliction; thou hast saved my soul from distresses. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">9</sup> And thou hast not shut me up into the hands of the enemy: thou hast set my feet in a wide place. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">10</sup> Pity me, O Lord, for I am afflicted: my eye is troubled with indignation, my soul and my belly. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">11</sup> For my life is spent with grief, and my years with groanings: my strength has been weakened through poverty, and my bones are troubled. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">12</sup> I became a reproach among all mine enemies, but exceedingly so to my neighbours, and a fear to mine acquaintance: they that saw me without fled from me. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">13</sup> I have been forgotten as a dead man out of mind: I am become as a broken vessel. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">14</sup> For I heard the slander of many that dwelt round about: when they were gathered together against me, they took counsel to take my life. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">15</sup> But I hoped in thee, O Lord: I said, Thou art my God. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">16</sup> My lots are in thy hands: deliver me from the hand of mine enemies, </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">17</sup> and from them that persecute me. Make thy face to shine upon thy servant: save me in thy mercy. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">18</sup> O Lord, let me not be ashamed, for I have called upon thee: let the ungodly be ashamed, and brought down to Hades. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">19</sup> Let the deceitful lips become dumb, which speak iniquity against the righteous with pride and scorn. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">20</sup> How abundant is the multitude of thy goodness, O Lord, which thou hast laid up for them that fear thee! thou hast wrought it out for them that hope on thee, in the presence of the sons of men. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">21</sup> Thou wilt hide them in the secret of thy presence from the vexation of man: thou wilt screen them in a tabernacle from the contradiction of tongues. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">22</sup> Blessed be the Lord: for he has magnified his mercy in a fortified city. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">23</sup> But I said in my extreme fear, I am cast out from the sight of thine eyes: therefore thou didst hearken, O Lord, to the voice of my supplication when I cried to thee. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">24</sup> Love the Lord, all ye his saints: for the Lord seeks for truth, and renders a reward to them that deal very proudly. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">25</sup> Be of good courage, and let your heart be strengthened, all ye that hope in the Lord. </div>