---
title: Psalm 48
---
# Psalm 48

<sup>1</sup> For the end, a Psalm for the sons of Core. <sup>2</sup> Hear these words, all ye nations, hearken, all ye that dwell upon the earth: <sup>3</sup> both the sons of mean men, and sons of great men; the rich and poor man together. <sup>4</sup> My mouth shall speak of wisdom; and the meditation of my heart shall bring forth understanding. <sup>5</sup> I will incline mine ear to a parable: I will open my riddle on the harp. <sup>6</sup> Wherefore should I fear in the evil day? the iniquity of my heel shall compass me. <sup>7</sup> They that trust in their strength, and boast themselves in the multitude of their wealth— <sup>8</sup> A brother does not redeem, shall a man redeem? he shall not give to God a ransom for himself, <sup>9</sup> or the price of the redemption of his soul, though he labour for ever, <sup>10</sup> and live to the end, so that he should not see corruption. <sup>11</sup> When he shall see wise men dying, the fool and the senseless one shall perish together; and they shall leave their wealth to strangers. <sup>12</sup> And their sepulchres are their houses for ever, even their tabernacles to all generations: they have called their lands after their own names. <sup>13</sup> And man being in honour, understands not: he is compared to the senseless cattle, and is like to them. <sup>14</sup> This their way is an offence to them: yet afterwards men will commend their sayings. Pause. <sup>15</sup> They have laid them as sheep in Hades; death shall feed on them; and the upright shall have dominion over them in the morning, and their help shall fail in Hades from their glory. <sup>16</sup> But God shall deliver my soul from the power of Hades, when he shall receive me. Pause. <sup>17</sup> Fear not when a man is enriched, and when the glory of his house is increased. <sup>18</sup> For he shall take nothing when he dies; neither shall his glory descend with him. <sup>19</sup> For his soul shall be blessed in his life: he shall give thanks to thee when thou dost well to him. <sup>20</sup> Yet he shall go in to the generation of his fathers; he shall never see light. <sup>21</sup> Man that is in honour, understands not: he is compared to the senseless cattle, and is like them. 