---
title: Psalm 142
psalm: 142
previous: 141
next: 143
layout: psalm
---
<div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">1</sup> A Psalm of David, when his son pursued him. O Lord, attend to my prayer: hearken to my supplication in thy truth; hear me in thy righteousness. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">2</sup> And enter not into judgment with thy servant, for in thy sight shall no man living be justified. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">3</sup> For the enemy has persecuted my soul; he has brought my life down to the ground; he has made me to dwell in a dark place, as those that have been long dead. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">4</sup> Therefore my spirit was grieved in me; my heart was troubled within me. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">5</sup> I remembered the days of old; and I meditated on all thy doings: yea, I meditated on the works of thine hands. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">6</sup> I spread forth my hands to thee; my soul thirsts for thee, as a dry land. Pause. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">7</sup> Hear me speedily, O Lord; my spirit has failed; turn not away thy face from me, else I shall be like to them that go down to the pit. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">8</sup> Cause me to hear thy mercy in the morning; for I have hoped in thee; make known to me, O Lord, the way wherein I should walk; for I have lifted up my soul to thee. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">9</sup> Deliver me from mine enemies, O Lord; for I have fled to thee for refuge. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">10</sup> Teach me to do thy will; for thou art my God; thy good Spirit shall guide me in the straight way. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">11</sup> Thou shalt quicken me, O Lord, for thy name's sake; in thy righteousness thou shalt bring my soul out of affliction. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">12</sup> And in thy mercy thou wilt destroy mine enemies, and wilt destroy all those that afflict my soul; for I am thy servant. </div>