---
title: Psalm 36
psalm: 36
previous: 35
next: 37
layout: psalm
---
<div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">1</sup> A Psalm of David. Fret not thyself because of evil-doers, neither be envious of them that do iniquity. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">2</sup> For they shall soon be withered as the grass, and shall soon fall away as the green herbs. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">3</sup> Hope in the Lord, and do good; and dwell on the land, and thou shalt be fed with the wealth of it. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">4</sup> Delight thyself in the Lord; and he shall grant thee the requests of thine heart. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">5</sup> Disclose thy way to the Lord, and hope in him; and he shall bring it to pass. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">6</sup> And he shall bring forth thy righteousness as the light, and thy judgment as the noon-day. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">7</sup> Submit thyself to the Lord, and supplicate him: fret not thyself because of him that prospers in his way, at the man that does unlawful deeds. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">8</sup> Cease from anger, and forsake wrath: fret not thyself so as to do evil. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">9</sup> For evil-doers shall be destroyed: but they that wait on the Lord, they shall inherit the land. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">10</sup> And yet a little while, and the sinner shall not be, and thou shalt seek for his place, and shalt not find it. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">11</sup> But the meek shall inherit the earth; and shall delight themselves in the abundance of peace. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">12</sup> The sinner will watch for the righteous, and gnash his teeth upon him. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">13</sup> But the Lord shall laugh at him: for he foresees that his day will come. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">14</sup> Sinners have drawn their swords, they have bent their bow, to cast down the poor and needy one, and to slay the upright in heart. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">15</sup> Let their sword enter into their own heart, and their bows be broken. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">16</sup> A little is better to the righteous than abundant wealth of sinners. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">17</sup> For the arms of sinners shall be broken; but the Lord supports the righteous. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">18</sup> The Lord knows the ways of the perfect; and their inheritance shall be for ever. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">19</sup> They shall not be ashamed in an evil time; and in days of famine they shall be satisfied. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">20</sup> For the sinners shall perish; and the enemies of the Lord at the moment of their being honoured and exalted have utterly vanished like smoke. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">21</sup> The sinner borrows, and will not pay again: but the righteous has compassion, and gives. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">22</sup> For they that bless him shall inherit the earth; and they that curse him shall be utterly destroyed. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">23</sup> The steps of a man are rightly ordered by the Lord: and he will take pleasure in his way. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">24</sup> When he falls, he shall not be ruined: for the Lord supports his hand. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">25</sup> I was once young, indeed I am now old; yet I have not seen the righteous forsaken, nor his seed seeking bread. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">26</sup> He is merciful, and lends continually; and his seed shall be blessed. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">27</sup> Turn aside from evil, and do good; and dwell for ever. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">28</sup> For the Lord loves judgment, and will not forsake his saints; they shall be preserved for ever: the blameless shall be avenged, but the seed of the ungodly shall be utterly destroyed. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">29</sup> But the righteous shall inherit the earth, and dwell upon it for ever. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">30</sup> The mouth of the righteous will meditate wisdom, and his tongue will speak of judgment. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">31</sup> The law of his God is in his heart; and his steps shall not slide. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">32</sup> The sinner watches the righteous, and seeks to slay him. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">33</sup> But the Lord will not leave him in his hands, nor by any means condemn him when he is judged. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">34</sup> Wait on the Lord, and keep his way, and he shall exalt thee to inherit the land: when the wicked are destroyed, thou shalt see it. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">35</sup> I saw the ungodly very highly exalting himself, and lifting himself up like the cedars of Libanus. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">36</sup> Yet I passed by, and lo! he was not: and I sought him, but his place was not found. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">37</sup> Maintain innocence, and behold uprightness: for there is a remnant to the peaceable man. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">38</sup> But the transgressors shall be utterly destroyed together: the remnants of the ungodly shall be utterly destroyed. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">39</sup> But the salvation of the righteous is of the Lord; and he is their defender in the time of affliction. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">40</sup> And the Lord shall help them, and deliver them: and he shall rescue them from sinners, and save them, because they have hoped in him. </div>