---
title: Psalm 58
psalm: 58
previous: 57
next: 59
layout: psalm
---
<div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">1</sup> For the end. Destroy not: by David for a memorial, when Saul sent, and watched his house to kill him. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">2</sup> Deliver me from mine enemies, O God; and ransom me from those that rise up against me. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">3</sup> Deliver me from the workers of iniquity, and save me from bloody men. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">4</sup> For, behold, they have hunted after my soul; violent men have set upon me: neither is it my iniquity, nor my sin, O Lord. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">5</sup> Without iniquity I ran and directed my course aright: awake to help me, and behold. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">6</sup> And thou, Lord God of hosts, the God of Israel, draw nigh to visit all the heathen; pity not any that work iniquity. Pause. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">7</sup> They shall return at evening, and hunger like a dog, and go round about the city. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">8</sup> Behold, they shall utter a voice with their mouth, and a sword is in their lips; for who, say they, has heard? </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">9</sup> But thou, Lord, wilt laugh them to scorn; thou wilt utterly set at nought all the heathen. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">10</sup> I will keep my strength, looking to thee; for thou, O God, art my helper. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">11</sup> As for my God, his mercy shall go before me: my God will shew me vengeance on mine enemies. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">12</sup> Slay them not, lest they forget thy law; scatter them by thy power; and bring them down, O Lord, my defender. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">13</sup> For the sin of their mouth, and the word of their lips, let them be even taken in their pride. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">14</sup> And for their cursing and falsehood shall utter destruction be denounced: they shall fall by the wrath of utter destruction, and shall not be; so shall they know that the God of Jacob is Lord of the ends of the earth. Pause. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">15</sup> They shall return at evening, and be hungry as a dog, and go round about the city. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">16</sup> They shall be scattered hither and thither for meat; and if they be not satisfied, they shall even murmur. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">17</sup> But I will sing to thy strength, and in the morning will I exult in thy mercy; for thou hast been my supporter, and my refuge in the day of mine affliction. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">18</sup> Thou art my helper; to thee, my God, will I sing; thou art my supporter, O my God, and my mercy. </div>