---
title: Psalm 138
---
# Psalm 138

<sup>1</sup> For the end, a Psalm of David. O Lord, thou hast proved me, and known me. <sup>2</sup> Thou knowest my down-sitting and mine up-rising: thou understandest my thoughts long before. <sup>3</sup> Thou hast traced my path and my bed, and hast foreseen all my ways. <sup>4</sup> For there is no unrighteous word in my tongue: behold, O Lord, thou hast known all things, <sup>5</sup> the last and the first: thou hast fashioned me, and laid thine hand upon me. <sup>6</sup> The knowledge of thee is too wonderful for me; it is very difficult, I cannot attain to it. <sup>7</sup> Whither shall I go from thy Spirit? and whither shall I flee from thy presence? <sup>8</sup> If I should go up to heaven, thou art there: if I should go down to hell, thou art present. <sup>9</sup> If I should spread my wings to fly straight forward, and sojourn at the extremity of the sea, it would be vain, <sup>10</sup> for even there thy hand would guide me, and thy right hand would hold me. <sup>11</sup> When I said, Surely the darkness will cover me; even the night was light in my luxury. <sup>12</sup> For darkness will not be darkness with thee; but night will be light as day: as its darkness, so shall its light be to thee. <sup>13</sup> For thou, O Lord, hast possessed my reins; thou hast helped me from my mother's womb. <sup>14</sup> I will give thee thanks; for thou art fearfully wondrous; wondrous are thy works; and my soul knows it well. <sup>15</sup> My bones which thou madest in secret were not hidden from thee, nor my substance, in the lowest parts of the earth. <sup>16</sup> Thine eyes saw my unwrought substance, and all men shall be written in thy book; they shall be formed by day, though there should for a time be no one among them. <sup>17</sup> But thy friends, O God, have been greatly honoured by me; their rule has been greatly strengthened. <sup>18</sup> I will number them, and they shall be multiplied beyond the sand; I awake, and am still with thee. <sup>19</sup> Oh that thou wouldest slay the wicked, O God; depart from me, ye men of blood. <sup>20</sup> For thou wilt say concerning their thought, that they shall take thy cities in vain. <sup>21</sup> Have I not hated them, O Lord, that hate thee? and wasted away because of thine enemies? <sup>22</sup> I have hated them with perfect hatred; they were counted my enemies. <sup>23</sup> Prove me, O God, and know my heart; examine me, and know my paths; <sup>24</sup> and see if there is any way of iniquity in me, and lead me in an everlasting way. 