---
title: Psalm 143
psalm: 143
previous: 142
next: 144
layout: psalm
---
<div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">1</sup> A Psalm of David concerning Goliad. Blessed be the Lord my God, who instructs my hands for battle, and my fingers for war. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">2</sup> My mercy, and my refuge; my helper, and my deliverer; my protector, in whom I have trusted; who subdues my people under me. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">3</sup> Lord, what is man, that thou art made known to him? or the son of man, that thou takest account of him? </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">4</sup> Man is like to vanity: his days pass as a shadow. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">5</sup> O Lord, bow thy heavens, and come down: touch the mountains, and they shall smoke. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">6</sup> Send lightning, and thou shalt scatter them: send forth thine arrows, and thou shalt discomfit them. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">7</sup> Send forth thine hand from on high; rescue me, and deliver me out of great waters, out of the hand of strange children; </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">8</sup> whose mouth has spoken vanity, and their right hand is a right hand of iniquity. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">9</sup> O God, I will sing a new song to thee: I will play to thee on a psaltery of ten strings. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">10</sup> Even to him who gives salvation to kings: who redeems his servant David from the hurtful sword. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">11</sup> Deliver me, and rescue me from the hand of strange children, whose mouth has spoken vanity, and their right hand is a right hand of iniquity; </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">12</sup> whose children are as plants, strengthened in their youth: their daughters are beautiful, sumptuously adorned after the similitude of a temple. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">13</sup> Their garners are full, and bursting with one kind of store after another; their sheep are prolific, multiplying in their streets. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">14</sup> Their oxen are fat: there is no falling down of a hedge, nor going out, nor cry in their folds. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">15</sup> Men bless the people to whom this lot belongs, but blessed is the people whose God is the Lord. </div>