---
title: Psalm 65
---
# Psalm 65

<sup>1</sup> For the end, a Song of a Psalm of resurrection. Shout unto God, all the earth. <sup>2</sup> O sing praises to his name; give glory to his praise. <sup>3</sup> Say unto God, How awful are thy works! through the greatness of thy power thine enemies shall lie to thee. <sup>4</sup> Let all the earth worship thee, and sing to thee; let them sing to thy name. Pause. <sup>5</sup> Come and behold the works of God; he is terrible in his counsels beyond the children of men. <sup>6</sup> Who turns the sea into dry land; they shall go through the river on foot; there shall we rejoice in him, <sup>7</sup> who by his power is Lord over the age, his eyes look upon the nations; let not them that provoke him be exalted in themselves. Pause. <sup>8</sup> Bless our God, ye Gentiles, and make the voice of his praise to be heard; <sup>9</sup> who quickens my soul in life, and does not suffer my feet to be moved. <sup>10</sup> For thou, O God, hast proved us; thou hast tried us with fire as silver is tried. <sup>11</sup> Thou broughtest us into the snare; thou laidest afflictions on our back. <sup>12</sup> Thou didst mount men upon our heads; we went through fire and water; but thou broughtest us out into a place of refreshment. <sup>13</sup> I will go into thine house with whole-burnt-offerings; I will pay thee my vows, <sup>14</sup> which my lips framed, and my mouth uttered in my affliction. <sup>15</sup> I will offer to thee whole-burnt-sacrifices full of marrow, with incense and rams; I will sacrifice to thee oxen with goats. Pause. <sup>16</sup> Come, hear, and I will tell, all ye that fear God, how great things he has done for my soul. <sup>17</sup> I cried to him with my mouth, and exalted him with my tongue. <sup>18</sup> If I have regarded iniquity in my heart, let not the Lord hearken to me. <sup>19</sup> Therefore God has hearkened to me; he has attended to the voice of my prayer. <sup>20</sup> Blessed be God, who has not turned away my prayer, nor his mercy from me. 