---
title: Psalm 26
---
# Psalm 26

<sup>1</sup> A Psalm of David, before he was anointed. The Lord is my light and my Saviour; whom shall I fear? the Lord is the defender of my life; of whom shall I be afraid? <sup>2</sup> When evil-doers drew nigh against me to eat up my flesh, my persecutors and mine enemies, they fainted and fell. <sup>3</sup> Though an army should set itself in array against me, my heart shall not be afraid: though war should rise up against me, in this am I confident. <sup>4</sup> One thing have I asked of the Lord, this will I earnestly seek: that I should dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, that I should behold the fair beauty of the Lord, and survey his temple. <sup>5</sup> For in the day of mine afflictions he hid me in his tabernacle: he sheltered me in the secret of his tabernacle; he set me up on a rock. <sup>6</sup> And now, behold, he has lifted up mine head over mine enemies: I went round and offered in his tabernacle the sacrifice of joy; I will sing, even sing psalms to the Lord. <sup>7</sup> Hear, O Lord, my voice which I have uttered aloud: pity me, and hearken to me. <sup>8</sup> My heart said to thee, I have diligently sought thy face: thy face, O Lord, I will seek. <sup>9</sup> Turn not thy face away from me, turn not thou away from thy servant in anger: be thou my helper, forsake me not; and, O God my Saviour, overlook me not. <sup>10</sup> For my father and my mother have forsaken me, but the Lord has taken me to himself. <sup>11</sup> Teach me, O Lord, in thy way, and guide me in a right path, because of mine enemies. <sup>12</sup> Deliver me not over to the desire of them that afflict me; for unjust witnesses have risen up against me, and injustice has lied within herself. <sup>13</sup> I believe that I shall see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. <sup>14</sup> Wait on the Lord: be of good courage, and let thy heart be strengthened: yea, wait on the Lord. 