---
title: Psalm 104
---
# Psalm 104

<sup>1</sup> Alleluia. Give thanks to the Lord, and call upon his name; declare his works among the heathen. <sup>2</sup> Sing to him, yea, sing praises to him: tell forth all his wonderful works. <sup>3</sup> Glory in his holy name: let the heart of them that seek the Lord rejoice. <sup>4</sup> Seek ye the Lord, and be strengthened; seek his face continually. <sup>5</sup> Remember his wonderful works that he has done; his wonders, and the judgments of his mouth; <sup>6</sup> ye seed of Abraam, his servants, ye children of Jacob, his chosen ones. <sup>7</sup> He is the Lord our God; his judgments are in all the earth. <sup>8</sup> He has remembered his covenant for ever, the word which he commanded for a thousand generations: <sup>9</sup> which he established as a covenant to Abraam, and he remembered his oath to Isaac. <sup>10</sup> And he established it to Jacob for an ordinance, and to Israel for an everlasting covenant; <sup>11</sup> saying, To thee will I give the land of Chanaan, the line of your inheritance: <sup>12</sup> when they were few in number, very few, and sojourners in it. <sup>13</sup> And they went from nation to nation, and from one kingdom to another people. <sup>14</sup> He suffered no man to wrong them; and he rebuked kings for their sakes: <sup>15</sup> saying, Touch not my anointed ones; and do my prophets no harm. <sup>16</sup> Moreover he called for a famine upon the land; he broke the whole support of bread. <sup>17</sup> He sent a man before them; Joseph was sold for a slave. <sup>18</sup> They hurt his feet with fetters; his soul passed into iron, <sup>19</sup> until the time that his cause came on; the word of the Lord tried him as fire. <sup>20</sup> The king sent and loosed him; even the prince of the people, and let him go free. <sup>21</sup> He made him lord over his house, and ruler of all his substance; <sup>22</sup> to chastise his rulers at his pleasure, and to teach his elders wisdom. <sup>23</sup> Israel also came into Egypt, and Jacob sojourned in the land of Cham. <sup>24</sup> And he increased his people greatly, and made them stronger than their enemies. <sup>25</sup> And he turned their heart to hate his people, to deal craftily with his servants. <sup>26</sup> He sent forth Moses his servant, and Aaron whom he had chosen. <sup>27</sup> He established among them his signs, and his wonders in the land of Cham. <sup>28</sup> He sent forth darkness, and made it dark; yet they rebelled against his words. <sup>29</sup> He turned their waters into blood, and slew their fish. <sup>30</sup> Their land produced frogs abundantly, in the chambers of their kings. <sup>31</sup> He spoke, and the dog-fly came, and lice in all their coasts. <sup>32</sup> He turned their rain into hail, and sent flaming fire in their land. <sup>33</sup> And he smote their vines and their fig-trees; and broke every tree of their coast. <sup>34</sup> He spoke, and the locust came, and caterpillars innumerable, <sup>35</sup> and devoured all the grass in their land, and devoured the fruit of their ground. <sup>36</sup> He smote also every first-born of their land, the first-fruits of all their labour. <sup>37</sup> And he brought them out with silver and gold; and there was not a feeble one among their tribes. <sup>38</sup> Egypt rejoiced at their departing; for the fear of them fell upon them. <sup>39</sup> He spread out a cloud for a covering to them, and fire to give them light by night. <sup>40</sup> They asked, and the quail came, and he satisfied them with the bread of heaven. <sup>41</sup> He clave the rock, and the waters flowed; rivers ran in dry places. <sup>42</sup> For he remembered his holy word, which he promised to Abraam his servant. <sup>43</sup> And he brought out his people with exultation, and his chosen with joy; <sup>44</sup> and gave them the lands of the heathen; and they inherited the labours of the people; <sup>45</sup> that they might keep his ordinances, and diligently seek his law. 