---
title: Psalm 32
---
# Psalm 32

<sup>1</sup> A Psalm of David. Rejoice in the Lord, ye righteous; praise becomes the upright. <sup>2</sup> Praise the Lord on the harp; play to him on a psaltery of ten strings. <sup>3</sup> Sing to him a new song; play skilfully with a loud noise. <sup>4</sup> For the word of the Lord is right; and all his works are faithful. <sup>5</sup> He loves mercy and judgment; the earth is full of the mercy of the Lord. <sup>6</sup> By the word of the Lord the heavens were established; and all the host of them by the breath of his mouth. <sup>7</sup> Who gathers the waters of the sea as in a bottle; who lays up the deeps in treasuries. <sup>8</sup> Let all the earth fear the Lord; and let all that dwell in the world be moved because of him. <sup>9</sup> For he spoke, and they were made; he commanded, and they were created. <sup>10</sup> The Lord frustrates the counsels of the nations; he brings to nought also the reasonings of the peoples, and brings to nought the counsels of princes. <sup>11</sup> But the counsel of the Lord endures for ever, the thoughts of his heart from generation to generation. <sup>12</sup> Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord; the people whom he has chosen for his own inheritance. <sup>13</sup> The Lord looks out of heaven; he beholds all the sons of men. <sup>14</sup> He looks from his prepared habitation on all the dwellers on the earth; <sup>15</sup> who fashioned their hearts alone; who understands all their works. <sup>16</sup> A king is not saved by reason of a great host; and a giant shall not be delivered by the greatness of his strength. <sup>17</sup> A horse is vain for safety; neither shall he be delivered by the greatness of his power. <sup>18</sup> Behold, the eyes of the Lord are on them that fear him, those that hope in his mercy; <sup>19</sup> to deliver their souls from death, and to keep them alive in famine. <sup>20</sup> Our soul waits on the Lord; for he is our helper and defender. <sup>21</sup> For our heart shall rejoice in him, and we have hoped in his holy name. <sup>22</sup> Let thy mercy, O Lord, be upon us, according as we have hoped in thee. 