---
title: Psalm 88
---
# Psalm 88

<sup>1</sup> A Psalm of instruction for Ætham the Israelite. <sup>2</sup> I will sing of thy mercies, O Lord, for ever: I will declare thy truth with my mouth to all generations. <sup>3</sup> For thou hast said, Mercy shall be built up for ever: thy truth shall be established in the heavens. <sup>4</sup> I made a covenant with my chosen ones, I sware unto David my servant. <sup>5</sup> I will establish thy seed for ever, and build up thy throne to all generations. Pause. <sup>6</sup> The heavens shall declare thy wonders, O Lord; and thy truth in the assembly of the saints. <sup>7</sup> For who in the heavens shall be compared to the Lord? and who shall be likened to the Lord among the sons of God? <sup>8</sup> God is glorified in the council of the saints; great and terrible toward all that are round about him. <sup>9</sup> O Lord God of hosts, who is like to thee? thou art mighty, O Lord, and thy truth is round about thee. <sup>10</sup> Thou rulest the power of the sea; and thou calmest the tumult of its waves. <sup>11</sup> Thou hast brought down the proud as one that is slain; and with the arm of thy power thou hast scattered thine enemies. <sup>12</sup> The heavens are thine, and the earth is thine: thou hast founded the world, and the fulness of it. <sup>13</sup> Thou hast created the north and the west: Thabor and Hermon shall rejoice in thy name. <sup>14</sup> Thine is the mighty arm: let thy hand be strengthened, let thy right hand be exalted. <sup>15</sup> Justice and judgment are the establishment of thy throne: mercy and truth shall go before thy face. <sup>16</sup> Blessed is the people that knows the joyful sound: they shall walk, O Lord, in the light of thy countenance. <sup>17</sup> And in thy name shall they rejoice all the day: and in thy righteousness shall they be exalted. <sup>18</sup> For thou art the boast of their strength; and in thy good pleasure shall our horn be exalted, <sup>19</sup> for our help is of the Lord; and of the Holy One of Israel, our king. <sup>20</sup> Then thou spokest in vision to thy children, and saidst, I have laid help on a mighty one; I have exalted one chosen out of my people. <sup>21</sup> I have found David my servant; I have anointed him by my holy mercy. <sup>22</sup> For my hand shall support him; and mine arm shall strengthen him. <sup>23</sup> The enemy shall have no advantage against him; and the son of transgression shall not hurt him again. <sup>24</sup> And I will hew down his foes before him, and put to flight those that hate him. <sup>25</sup> But my truth and my mercy shall be with him; and in my name shall his horn be exalted. <sup>26</sup> And I will set his hand in the sea, and his right hand in the rivers. <sup>27</sup> He shall call upon me, saying, Thou art my Father, my God, and the helper of my salvation. <sup>28</sup> And I will make him my first-born, higher than the kings of the earth. <sup>29</sup> I will keep my mercy for him for ever, and my covenant shall be firm with him. <sup>30</sup> And I will establish his seed for ever and ever, and his throne as the days of heaven. <sup>31</sup> If his children should forsake my law, and walk not in my judgments; <sup>32</sup> if they should profane my ordinances, and not keep my commandments; <sup>33</sup> I will visit their transgressions with a rod, and their sins with scourges. <sup>34</sup> But my mercy I will not utterly remove from him, nor wrong my truth. <sup>35</sup> Neither will I by any means profane my covenant; and I will not make void the things that proceed out of my lips. <sup>36</sup> Once have I sworn by my holiness, that I will not lie to David. <sup>37</sup> His seed shall endure for ever, and his throne as the sun before me; <sup>38</sup> and as the moon that is established for ever, and as the faithful witness in heaven. Pause. <sup>39</sup> But thou hast cast off and set at nought, thou hast rejected thine anointed. <sup>40</sup> Thou hast overthrown the covenant of thy servant; thou hast profaned his sanctuary, casting it to the ground. <sup>41</sup> Thou hast broken down all his hedges; thou hast made his strong holds a terror. <sup>42</sup> All that go by the way have spoiled him: he is become a reproach to his neighbours. <sup>43</sup> Thou hast exalted the right hand of his enemies; thou hast made all his enemies to rejoice. <sup>44</sup> Thou hast turned back the help of his sword, and hast not helped him in the battle. <sup>45</sup> Thou hast deprived him of glory: thou hast broken down his throne to the ground. <sup>46</sup> Thou hast shortened the days of his throne: thou hast poured shame upon him. Pause. <sup>47</sup> How long, O Lord, wilt thou turn away, for ever? shall thine anger flame out as fire? <sup>48</sup> Remember what my being is: for hast thou created all the sons of men in vain? <sup>49</sup> What man is there who shall live, and not see death? shall any one deliver his soul from the hand of Hades? Pause. <sup>50</sup> Where are thine ancient mercies, O Lord, which thou swarest to David in thy truth? <sup>51</sup> Remember, O Lord, the reproach of thy servants, which I have borne in my bosom, even the reproach of many nations; <sup>52</sup> wherewith thine enemies have reviled, O Lord: wherewith they have reviled the recompence of thine anointed. <sup>53</sup> Blessed be the Lord for ever. So be it, so be it. 