---
title: Psalm 20
---
# Psalm 20

<sup>1</sup> For the end, a Psalm of David. <sup>2</sup> O Lord, the king shall rejoice in thy strength; and in thy salvation he shall greatly exult. <sup>3</sup> Thou hast granted him the desire of his soul, and hast not withheld from him the request of his lips. Pause. <sup>4</sup> For thou hast prevented him with blessings of goodness: thou hast set upon his head a crown of precious stone. <sup>5</sup> He asked life of thee, and thou gavest him length of days for ever and ever. <sup>6</sup> His glory is great in thy salvation: thou wilt crown him with glory and majesty. <sup>7</sup> For thou wilt give him a blessing for ever and ever: thou wilt gladden him with joy with thy countenance. <sup>8</sup> For the king trusts in the Lord, and through the mercy of the Highest he shall not be moved. <sup>9</sup> Let thy hand be found by all thine enemies: let thy right hand find all that hate thee. <sup>10</sup> Thou shalt make them as a fiery oven at the time of thy presence: the Lord shall trouble them in his anger, and fire shall devour them. <sup>11</sup> Thou shalt destroy their fruit from the earth, and their seed from among the sons of men. <sup>12</sup> For they intended evils against thee; they imagined a device which they shall by no means be able to perform. <sup>13</sup> For thou shalt make them turn their back in thy latter end, thou wilt prepare their face. <sup>14</sup> Be thou exalted, O Lord, in thy strength: we will sing and praise thy mighty acts. 