---
title: Psalm 106
---
# Psalm 106

<sup>1</sup> Alleluia. Give thanks to the Lord, for he is good; for his mercy endures for ever. <sup>2</sup> Let them say so who have been redeemed by the Lord, whom he has redeemed from the hand of the enemy; <sup>3</sup> and gathered them out of the countries, from the east, and west, and north, and south. <sup>4</sup> They wandered in the wilderness in a dry land; they found no way to a city of habitation. <sup>5</sup> Hungry and thirsty, their soul fainted in them. <sup>6</sup> Then they cried to the Lord in their affliction, and he delivered them out of their distresses. <sup>7</sup> And he guided them into a straight path, that they might go to a city of habitation. <sup>8</sup> Let them acknowledge to the Lord his mercies, and his wonderful works to the children of men. <sup>9</sup> For he satisfies the empty soul, and fills the hungry soul with good things, <sup>10</sup> even them that sit in darkness and the shadow of death, fettered in poverty and iron; <sup>11</sup> because they rebelled against the words of God, and provoked the counsel of the Most High. <sup>12</sup> So their heart was brought low with troubles; they were weak, and there was no helper. <sup>13</sup> Then they cried to the Lord in their affliction, and he saved them out of their distresses. <sup>14</sup> And he brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death, and broke their bonds asunder. <sup>15</sup> Let them acknowledge to the Lord his mercies, and his wonders to the children of men. <sup>16</sup> For he broke to pieces the brazen gates, and crushed the iron bars. <sup>17</sup> He helped them out of the way of their iniquity; for they were brought low because of their iniquities. <sup>18</sup> Their soul abhorred all meat; and they drew near to the gates of death. <sup>19</sup> Then they cried to the Lord in their affliction, and he saved them out of their distresses. <sup>20</sup> He sent his word, and healed them, and delivered them out of their destructions. <sup>21</sup> Let them acknowledge to the Lord his mercies, and his wonderful works to the children of men. <sup>22</sup> And let them offer to him the sacrifice of praise, and proclaim his works with exultation. <sup>23</sup> They that go down to the sea in ships, doing business in many waters; <sup>24</sup> these men have seen the works of the Lord, and his wonders in the deep. <sup>25</sup> He speaks, and the stormy wind arises, and its waves are lifted up. <sup>26</sup> They go up to the heavens, and go down to the depths; their soul melts because of troubles. <sup>27</sup> They are troubled, they stagger as a drunkard, and all their wisdom is swallowed up. <sup>28</sup> Then they cry to the Lord in their affliction, and he brings them out of their distresses. <sup>29</sup> And he commands the storm, and it is calmed into a gentle breeze, and its waves are still. <sup>30</sup> And they are glad, because they are quiet; and he guides them to their desired haven. <sup>31</sup> Let them acknowledge to the Lord his mercies, and his wonderful works to the children of men. <sup>32</sup> Let them exalt him in the congregation of the people, and praise him in the seat of the elders. <sup>33</sup> He turns rivers into a desert, and streams of water into a dry land; <sup>34</sup> a fruitful land into saltness, for the wickedness of them that dwell in it. <sup>35</sup> He turns a wilderness into pools of water, and a dry land into streams of water. <sup>36</sup> And there he causes the hungry to dwell, and they establish for themselves cities of habitation. <sup>37</sup> And they sow fields, and plant vineyards, and they yield fruit of increase. <sup>38</sup> And he blesses them, and they multiply exceedingly, and he diminishes not the number of their cattle. <sup>39</sup> Again they become few, and are brought low, by the pressure of evils and pain. <sup>40</sup> Contempt is poured upon their princes, and he causes them to wander in a desert and trackless land. <sup>41</sup> But he helps the poor out of poverty, and makes him families as a flock. <sup>42</sup> The upright shall see and rejoice; and all iniquity shall stop her mouth. <sup>43</sup> Who is wise, and will observe these things, and understand the mercies of the Lord? 