---
title: Psalm 103
psalm: 103
previous: 102
next: 104
layout: psalm
---
<div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">1</sup> A Psalm of David. Bless the Lord, O my soul. O Lord my God, thou art very great; thou hast clothed thyself with praise and honour: </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">2</sup> who dost robe thyself with light as with a garment; spreading out the heaven as a curtain. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">3</sup> Who covers his chambers with waters; who makes the clouds his chariot; who walks on the wings of the wind. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">4</sup> Who makes his angels spirits, and his ministers a flaming fire. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">5</sup> Who establishes the earth on her sure foundation: it shall not be moved for ever. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">6</sup> The deep, as it were a garment, is his covering: the waters shall stand on the hills. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">7</sup> At thy rebuke they shall flee; at the voice of thy thunder they shall be alarmed. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">8</sup> They go up to the mountains, and down to the plains, to the place which thou hast founded for them. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">9</sup> Thou hast set a bound which they shall not pass, neither shall they turn again to cover the earth. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">10</sup> He sends forth his fountains among the valleys: the waters shall run between the mountains. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">11</sup> They shall give drink to all the wild beasts of the field: the wild asses shall take of them to quench their thirst. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">12</sup> By them shall the birds of the sky lodge: they shall utter a voice out of the midst of the rocks. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">13</sup> He waters the mountains from his chambers: the earth shall be satisfied with the fruit of thy works. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">14</sup> He makes grass to grow for the cattle, and green herb for the service of men, to bring bread out of the earth; </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">15</sup> and wine makes glad the heart of man, to make his face cheerful with oil: and bread strengthens man's heart. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">16</sup> The trees of the plain shall be full of sap; even the cedars of Libanus which he has planted. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">17</sup> There the sparrows will build their nests; and the house of the heron takes the lead among them. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">18</sup> The high mountains are a refuge for the stags, and the rock for the rabbits. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">19</sup> He appointed the moon for seasons: the sun knows his going down. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">20</sup> Thou didst make darkness, and it was night; in it all the wild beasts of the forest will be abroad: </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">21</sup> even young lions roaring for prey, and to seek meat for themselves from God. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">22</sup> The sun arises, and they shall be gathered together, and shall lie down in their dens. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">23</sup> Man shall go forth to his work, and to his labour till evening. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">24</sup> How great are thy works, O Lord! in wisdom hast thou wrought them all: the earth is filled with thy creation. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">25</sup> So is this great and wide sea: there are things creeping innumerable, small animals and great. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">26</sup> There go the ships; and this dragon whom thou hast made to play in it. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">27</sup> All wait upon thee, to give them their food in due season. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">28</sup> When thou hast given it them, they will gather it; and when thou hast opened thine hand, they shall all be filled with good. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">29</sup> But when thou hast turned away thy face, they shall be troubled: thou wilt take away their breath, and they shall fail, and return to their dust. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">30</sup> Thou shalt send forth thy Spirit, and they shall be created; and thou shalt renew the face of the earth. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">31</sup> Let the glory of the Lord be for ever: the Lord shall rejoice in his works; </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">32</sup> who looks upon the earth, and makes it tremble; who touches the mountains, and they smoke. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">33</sup> I will sing to the Lord while I live; I will sing praise to my God while I exist. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">34</sup> Let my meditation be sweet to him: and I will rejoice in the Lord. </div><div class="psalm-verse"><sup class="verse-number">35</sup> Let the sinners fail from off the earth, and transgressors, so that they shall be no more. Bless the Lord, O my soul. </div>