---
title: Psalm 105
---
# Psalm 105

<sup>1</sup> Alleluia. Give thanks to the Lord; for he is good: for his mercy endures for ever. <sup>2</sup> Who shall tell the mighty acts of the Lord? who shall cause all his praises to be heard? <sup>3</sup> Blessed are they that keep judgment, and do righteousness at all times. <sup>4</sup> Remember us, O Lord, with the favour thou hast to thy people: visit us with thy salvation; <sup>5</sup> that we may behold the good of thine elect, that we may rejoice in the gladness of thy nation, that we may glory with thine inheritance. <sup>6</sup> We have sinned with our fathers, we have transgressed, we have done unrighteously. <sup>7</sup> Our fathers in Egypt understood not thy wonders, and remembered not the multitude of thy mercy; but provoked him as they went up by the Red Sea. <sup>8</sup> Yet he saved them for his name's sake, that he might cause his mighty power to be known. <sup>9</sup> And he rebuked the Red Sea, and it was dried up: so he led them through the deep as through the wilderness. <sup>10</sup> And he saved them out of the hand of them that hated them, and redeemed them out of the hand of the enemy. <sup>11</sup> The water covered those that oppressed them: there was not one of them left. <sup>12</sup> Then they believed his words, and celebrated his praise. <sup>13</sup> They made haste, they forgot his works; they waited not for his counsel. <sup>14</sup> And they lusted exceedingly in the wilderness, and tempted God in the dry land. <sup>15</sup> And he gave them their request, and sent fulness into their souls. <sup>16</sup> They provoked Moses also in the camp, and Aaron the holy one of the Lord. <sup>17</sup> The earth opened and swallowed up Dathan, and closed upon the congregation of Abiron. <sup>18</sup> And a fire was kindled in their congregation, and a flame burnt up the sinners. <sup>19</sup> And they made a calf in Choreb, and worshipped the graven image, <sup>20</sup> and they changed their glory into the similitude of a calf that feeds on grass. <sup>21</sup> They forgot God that saved them, who had wrought great deeds in Egypt; <sup>22</sup> wondrous works in the land of Cham, and terrible things at the Red Sea. <sup>23</sup> So he said that he would have destroyed them, had not Moses his chosen stood before him in the breach, to turn him away from the fierceness of his anger, so that he should not destroy them. <sup>24</sup> Moreover they set at nought the desirable land, and believed not his word. <sup>25</sup> And they murmured in their tents: they hearkened not to the voice of the Lord. <sup>26</sup> So he lifted up his hand against them, to cast them down in the wilderness; <sup>27</sup> and to cast down their seed among the nations, and to scatter them in the countries. <sup>28</sup> They were joined also to Beelphegor, and ate the sacrifices of the dead. And they provoked him with their devices; <sup>29</sup> and destruction was multiplied among them. <sup>30</sup> Then Phinees stood up, and made atonement: and the plague ceased. <sup>31</sup> And it was counted to him for righteousness, to all generations for ever. <sup>32</sup> They provoked him also at the water of Strife, and Moses was hurt for their sakes; <sup>33</sup> for they provoked his spirit, and he spoke unadvisedly with his lips. <sup>34</sup> They destroyed not the nations which the Lord told them to destroy; <sup>35</sup> but were mingled with the heathen, and learned their works. <sup>36</sup> And they served their graven images; and it became an offence to them. <sup>37</sup> And they sacrificed their sons and their daughters to devils, <sup>38</sup> and shed innocent blood, the blood of their sons and daughters, whom they sacrificed to the idols of Chanaan; and the land was defiled with blood, <sup>39</sup> and was polluted with their works; and they went a whoring with their own devices. <sup>40</sup> So the Lord was very angry with his people, and he abhorred his inheritance. <sup>41</sup> And he delivered them into the hands of their enemies; and they that hated them ruled over them. <sup>42</sup> And their enemies oppressed them, and they were brought down under their hands. <sup>43</sup> Many a time he delivered them; but they provoked him by their counsel, and they were brought low by their iniquities. <sup>44</sup> Yet the Lord looked upon their affliction, when he heard their petition. <sup>45</sup> And he remembered his covenant, and repented according to the multitude of his mercy. <sup>46</sup> And he caused them to be pitied in the sight of all who carried them captive. <sup>47</sup> Save us, O Lord our God, and gather us from among the heathen, that we may give thanks to thy holy name, that we may glory in thy praise. <sup>48</sup> Blessed be the Lord God of Israel from everlasting and to everlasting; and all the people shall say, Amen, Amen. 