---
title: Psalm 72
---
# Psalm 72

<sup>1</sup> A Psalm for Asaph. How good is God to Israel, to the upright in heart! <sup>2</sup> But my feet were almost overthrown; my goings very nearly slipped. <sup>3</sup> For I was jealous of the transgressors, beholding the tranquillity of sinners. <sup>4</sup> For there is no sign of reluctance in their death: and they have firmness under their affliction. <sup>5</sup> They are not in the troubles of other men; and they shall not be scourged with other men. <sup>6</sup> Therefore pride has possessed them; they have clothed themselves with their injustice and ungodliness. <sup>7</sup> Their injustice shall go forth as out of fatness: they have fulfilled their intention. <sup>8</sup> They have taken counsel and spoken in wickedness: they have uttered unrighteousness loftily. <sup>9</sup> They have set their mouth against heaven, and their tongue has gone through upon the earth. <sup>10</sup> Therefore shall my people return hither: and full days shall be found with them. <sup>11</sup> And they said, How does God know? and is there knowledge in the Most High? <sup>12</sup> Behold, these are the sinners, and they that prosper always: they have possessed wealth. <sup>13</sup> And I said, Verily in vain have I justified my heart, and washed my hands in innocency. <sup>14</sup> For I was plagued all the day, and my reproof was every morning. <sup>15</sup> If I said, I will speak thus; behold, I should have broken covenant with the generation of thy children. <sup>16</sup> And I undertook to understand this, but it is too hard for me, <sup>17</sup> until I go into the sanctuary of God; and so understand the latter end. <sup>18</sup> Surely thou hast appointed judgments to them because of their crafty dealings: thou hast cast them down when they were lifted up. <sup>19</sup> How have they become desolate! suddenly they have failed: they have perished because of their iniquity. <sup>20</sup> As the dream of one awakening, O Lord, in thy city thou wilt despise their image. <sup>21</sup> For my heart has rejoiced, and my reins have been gladdened. <sup>22</sup> But I was vile and knew not: I became brutish before thee. <sup>23</sup> Yet I am continually with thee: thou hast holden my right hand. <sup>24</sup> Thou hast guided me by thy counsel, and thou hast taken me to thyself with glory. <sup>25</sup> For what have I in heaven but thee? and what have I desired upon the earth beside thee? <sup>26</sup> My heart and my flesh have failed: but God is the strength of my heart, and God is my portion for ever. <sup>27</sup> For, behold, they that remove themselves far from thee shall perish: thou hast destroyed every one that goes a whoring from thee. <sup>28</sup> But it is good for me to cleave close to God, to put my trust in the Lord; that I may proclaim all thy praises in the gates of the daughter of Sion. 